[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 120 (Wednesday, July 20, 2022)]
[House]
[Page H6903]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            DONALD TRUMP LOST THE 2020 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION

  (Mr. LIEU asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. LIEU. Mr. Speaker, Donald Trump lost the 2020 Presidential 
Election by over 7 million votes. Trump lost Arizona by over 10,000 
votes. Trump lost Georgia by over 11,000 votes. Trump lost Wisconsin by 
over 20,000 votes. Trump lost Nevada by over 30,000 votes. Trump lost 
Pennsylvania by over 80,000 votes. Trump lost Michigan by over 150,000 
votes.
  Trump lost the Electoral College 232-306. Donald Trump lost the 2020 
Presidential Election.

                          ____________________


[House Hearing, 117 Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]






 
                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

=======================================================================


                                HEARING

                               before the

                          SELECT COMMITTEE TO
                      INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH
                             ATTACK ON THE
                         UNITED STATES CAPITOL

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               __________

                             JULY 12, 2022

                               __________

                            Serial No. 117-8

                               __________

Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
                6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                                     


[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

                                     

        Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov

                               __________
                               
               U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE 
49-355 PDF             WASHINGTON : 2022                             
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               

 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE UNITED 
                             STATES CAPITOL

               Bennie G. Thompson, Mississippi, Chairman
                    Liz Cheney, Wyoming, Vice Chair
                        Zoe Lofgren, California
                       Adam B. Schiff, California
                        Pete Aguilar, California
                      Stephanie N. Murphy, Florida
                         Jamie Raskin, Maryland
                       Elaine G. Luria, Virginia
                        Adam Kinzinger, Illinois
                            COMMITTEE STAFF

                    David B. Buckley, Staff Director
      Kristin L. Amerling, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
               Hope Goins, Senior Counsel to the Chairman
           Joseph B. Maher, Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair
             Timothy J. Heaphy, Chief Investigative Counsel
                      Jamie Fleet, Senior Advisor
               Timothy R. Mulvey, Communications Director
           Candyce Phoenix, Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor
 John F. Wood, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice 
                                 Chair

Katherine B. Abrams, Staff              Thomas E. Joscelyn, Senior 
    Associate                           Professional Staff Member
Temidayo Aganga-Williams, Senior         Rebecca L. Knooihuizen, Financial 
    Investigative Counsel                       Investigator
Alejandra Apecechea, Investigative      Casey E. Lucier, Investigative 
    Counsel                                       Counsel
Lisa A. Bianco, Director of Member      Damon M. Marx, Professional Staff 
    Services and Security Manager                  Member
Jerome P. Bjelopera, Investigator       Evan B. Mauldin, Chief Clerk
Bryan Bonner, Investigative Counsel     Yonatan L. Moskowitz, Senior 
Richard R. Bruno, Senior                         Counsel
    Administrative Assistant            Hannah G. Muldavin, Deputy 
Marcus Childress, Investigative          Communications Director
    Counsel                            Jonathan D. Murray, Professional 
John Marcus Clark, Security                   Staff Member
    Director                           Jacob A. Nelson, Professional 
Jacqueline N. Colvett, Digital                Staff Member
    Director                           Elizabeth Obrand, Staff Associate
Heather I. Connelly, Professional        Raymond O'Mara, Director of 
    Staff Member                            External Affairs
Meghan E. Conroy, Investigator         Elyes Ouechtati, Technology 
Heather L. Crowell, Printer                     Partner
    Proofreader                        Robin M. Peguero, Investigative 
William C. Danvers, Senior                      Counsel
    Researcher                         Sandeep A. Prasanna, Investigative 
Soumyalatha Dayananda, Senior                   Counsel
    Investigative Counsel              Barry Pump, Parliamentarian
Stephen W. DeVine, Senior Counsel      Sean M. Quinn, Investigative 
Lawrence J. Eagleburger,                         Counsel
    Professional Staff Member          Brittany M. J. Record, Senior 
Kevin S. Elliker, Investigative                 Counsel
    Counsel                           Denver Riggleman, Senior Technical 
Margaret E. Emamzadeh, Staff                   Advisor
    Associate                         Joshua D. Roselman, Investigative 
Sadallah A. Farah, Professional                   Counsel
    Staff Member                       James N. Sasso, Senior 
Daniel A. George, Senior               Investigative Counsel
    Investigative Counsel              Grant H. Saunders, Professional 
Jacob H. Glick, Investigative             Staff Member
    Counsel                            Samantha O. Stiles, Chief 
Aaron S. Greene, Clerk                Administrative Officer
Marc S. Harris, Senior                Sean P. Tonolli, Senior 
    Investigative Counsel             Investigative Counsel
Alice K. Hayes, Clerk                 David A. Weinberg, Senior 
Quincy T. Henderson, Staff            Professional Staff Member
    Assistant                         Amanda S. Wick, Senior 
Jenna Hopkins, Professional Staff        Investigative Counsel
    Member                             Darrin L. Williams, Jr., Staff 
Camisha L. Johnson, Professional 
    Staff Member                         Assistant
                                         Zachary S. Wood, Clerk
         
 
                                         
                                     
                       CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS

                             Rawaa Alobaidi
                             Melinda Arons
                              Steve Baker
                            Elizabeth Bisbee
                              David Canady
                             John Coughlin
                             Aaron Dietzen
                              Gina Ferrise
                           Angel Goldsborough
                             James Goldston
                              Polly Grube
                          L. Christine Healey
                             Danny Holladay
                              Percy Howard
                              Dean Jackson
                           Stephanie J. Jones
                              Hyatt Mamoun
                               Mary Marsh
                               Todd Mason
                              Ryan Mayers
                              Jeff McBride
                               Fred Muram
                             Alex Newhouse
                              John Norton
                             Orlando Pinder
                               Owen Pratt
                              Dan Pryzgoda
                              Brian Sasser
                            William Scherer
                              Driss Sekkat
                              Chris Stuart
                            Preston Sullivan
                              Brian Young

                           Innovative Driven
                           
                            C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page

                               Statements

The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee 
  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
  Capitol........................................................     1
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to 
  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol     2
The Honorable Stephanie N. Murphy, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Florida......................................     3
The Honorable Jamie Raskin, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Maryland..............................................     4

                               Witnesses

Mr. Jason Van Tatenhove, Former National Media Director for the 
  Oath Keepers...................................................    31
Mr. Stephen Ayres, January 6th Defendant.........................    32

                                Appendix

Prepared Statement of Jason Van Tatenhove, Former National Media 
  Director for the Oath Keepers..................................    43


                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

                              ----------                              


                         Tuesday, July 12, 2022

                     U.S. House of Representatives,
 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
                                 the United States Capitol,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 1:01 p.m., in 
room 390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson 
[Chairman of the Committee] presiding.
    Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger.
    Chairman Thompson. The Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in 
order.
    Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the 
Committee in recess at any point.
    Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 10, the 
Chair announces the Committee's approval to release the 
deposition material presented during today's hearing.
    Good afternoon.
    When I think about the most basic way to explain the 
importance of elections in the United States, there is a phrase 
that always comes to mind. It may sound straightforward, but it 
is meaningful: We settle our differences at the ballot box.
    Sometimes my choice prevails; sometimes yours does. But it 
is that simple. We cast our votes. We count the votes. If 
something seems off with the results, we can challenge them in 
court. Then we accept the results.
    When you are on the losing side, that doesn't mean you have 
to be happy about it. In the United States, there is plenty you 
can do to say so. You can protest. You can organize. You can 
get ready for the next election to try to make sure your side 
has a better chance the next time the people settle their 
differences at the ballot box.
    But you can't turn violent. You can't try to achieve your 
desired outcome through force or harassment or intimidation.
    Any real leader who sees their supporters going down that 
path, approaching that line, has a responsibility to say, 
``Stop. We gave it our best. We came up short. We'll try again 
next time. Because we settle our differences at the ballot 
box.''
    On December 14, 2020, the Presidential election was 
officially over. The electoral college had cast its vote. Joe 
Biden was the President-elect of the United States.
    By that point, many of Donald Trump's supporters were 
already convinced that the election had been stolen, because 
that is what Donald Trump had been telling them. So what Donald 
Trump was required to do in that moment--what would have been 
required of any American leader--was to say, ``We did our best, 
and we came up short.''
    He went the opposite way. He seized on the anger he had 
already stoked among his most loyal supporters. As they 
approached the line, he didn't wave them off; he urged them on.
    Today, the Committee will explain how, as a part of his 
last-ditch effort to overturn the election and block the 
transfer of power, Donald Trump summoned a mob to Washington, 
DC, and ultimately spurred that mob to wage a violent attack on 
our democracy.
    Our colleagues Mrs. Murphy of Florida and Mr. Raskin of 
Maryland will lay out this story.
    First, I am pleased to recognize our distinguished Vice 
Chair, Ms. Cheney of Wyoming, for any opening comments she 
would care to offer.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Our Committee did not conduct a hearing last week, but we 
did conduct an on-the-record interview of President Trump's 
former White House Counsel, Pat Cipollone.
    If you have watched these hearings, you have heard us call 
for Mr. Cipollone to come forward to testify. He did. Mr. 
Cipollone's testimony met our expectations.
    We will save for our next hearing President Trump's 
behavior during the violence of January 6th. Today's hearing 
will take us from December 14, 2020, when the electoral college 
met and certified the results of the 2020 Presidential 
election, up through the morning of January 6th.
    You will see certain segments of Pat Cipollone's testimony 
today. We will also see today how President Trump summoned a 
mob to Washington and how the President's ``stolen election'' 
lies provoked that mob to attack the Capitol. We will hear from 
a man who was induced by President Trump's lies to come to 
Washington and join the mob and how that decision has changed 
his life.
    Today's hearing is our seventh. We have covered significant 
ground over the past several weeks. We have also seen a change 
in how witnesses and lawyers in the Trump orbit approach this 
Committee.
    Initially, their strategy in some cases appeared to be to 
deny and delay. Today, there appears to be a general 
recognition that the Committee has established key facts, 
including that virtually everyone close to President Trump--his 
Justice Department officials, his White House advisors, his 
White House Counsel, his campaign--all told him the 2020 
election was not stolen.
    This appears to have changed the strategy for defending 
Donald Trump. Now the argument seems to be that President Trump 
was manipulated by others outside the administration, that he 
was persuaded to ignore his closest advisors, and that he was 
incapable of telling right from wrong.
    This new strategy is to try to blame only John Eastman or 
Sidney Powell or Congressman Scott Perry or others and not 
President Trump. In this version, the President was ``poorly 
served'' by these outside advisors. The strategy is to blame 
people his advisors called ``the crazies'' for what Donald 
Trump did.
    This, of course, is nonsense.
    President Trump is a 76-year-old man. He is not an 
impressionable child. Just like everyone else in our country, 
he is responsible for his own actions and his own choices.
    As our investigation has shown, Donald Trump had access to 
more detailed and specific information showing that the 
election was not actually stolen than almost any other 
American, and he was told this over and over again.
    No rational or sane man in his position could disregard 
that information and reach the opposite conclusion. Donald 
Trump cannot escape responsibility by being willfully blind. 
Nor can any argument of any kind excuse President Trump's 
behavior during the violent attack on January 6th.
    As you watch our hearing today, I would urge you to keep 
your eye on two specific points.
    First, you will see evidence that Trump's legal team, led 
by Rudy Giuliani, knew that they lacked actual evidence of 
wide-spread fraud sufficient to prove that the election was 
actually stolen. They knew it. But they went ahead with January 
6th anyway.
    Second, consider how millions of American were persuaded to 
believe what Donald Trump's closest advisors in his 
administration did not. These Americans did not have access to 
the truth like Donald Trump did. They put their faith and their 
trust in Donald Trump. They wanted to believe in him. They 
wanted to fight for their country. He deceived them.
    For millions of Americans, that may be painful to accept, 
but it is true.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, the Chair recognizes 
the gentlewoman from Florida, Mrs. Murphy, and the gentleman 
from Maryland, Mr. Raskin, for opening statements.
    Mrs. Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    We know beyond a shadow of a doubt that then-President 
Donald Trump lost in a free and fair election. Yet President 
Trump insisted that his loss was due to fraud in the election 
process rather than to the democratic will of the voters.
    The President continued to make this claim despite being 
told again and again--by the courts, by the Justice Department, 
by his campaign officials, and by some of his closest 
advisors--that the evidence did not support this assertion.
    This was the Big Lie, and millions of Americans were 
deceived by it. Too many of our fellow citizens still believe 
it to this day. It is corrosive to our country and damaging to 
our democracy.
    As our Committee has shown in prior hearings, following the 
election, President Trump relentlessly pursued multiple, 
interlocking lines of effort, all with a single goal: To remain 
in power despite having lost.
    The lines of effort were aimed at his loyal Vice President, 
Mike Pence; at State election and elected officials; and at the 
U.S. Department of Justice.
    The President pressured the Vice President to obstruct the 
process to certify the election result. He demanded that State 
officials ``find'' him enough votes to overturn the election 
outcome in that State. And he pressed the Department of Justice 
to find wide-spread evidence of fraud. When Justice officials 
told the President that such evidence did not exist, the 
President urged them to simply declare that the election was 
corrupt.
    On December 14th, the electoral college met to officially 
confirm that Joe Biden would be the next President.
    The evidence shows that, once this occurred, President 
Trump and those who were willing to aid and abet him turned 
their attention to the joint session of Congress scheduled for 
January 6th, at which the Vice President would preside.
    In their warped view, this ceremonial event was the next, 
and perhaps the last, inflection point that could be used to 
reverse the outcome of the election before Mr. Biden's 
inauguration. As President Trump put it, the Vice President and 
enough Members of Congress simply needed to summon the 
``courage'' to act.
    To help them find that courage, the President called for 
backup. Early in the morning of December 19th, the President 
sent out a tweet urging his followers to travel to Washington, 
DC, for January 6th. ``Be there, will be wild!'' the President 
wrote. As my colleague Mr. Raskin will describe in detail, this 
tweet served as a call to action and, in some cases, as a call 
to arms for many of President Trump's most loyal supporters.
    It is clear the President intended the assembled crowd on 
January 6th to serve his goal. As you have already seen and as 
you will see again today, some of those who were coming had 
specific plans. The President's goal was to stay in power for a 
second term despite losing the election. The assembled crowd 
was one of the tools to achieve that goal.
    In today's hearing, we will focus on events that took place 
in the final weeks leading up to January 6th, starting in mid-
December. We will add color and context to evidence you have 
already heard about, and we will also provide additional new 
evidence.
    For example, you will hear about meetings in which the 
President entertained extreme measures designed to help him 
stay in power, like the seizure of voting machines.
    We will show some of the coordination that occurred between 
the White House and Members of Congress as it relates to 
January 6th. Some of these Members of Congress would later seek 
pardons.
    We will also examine some of the planning for the January 
6th protest, placing special emphasis on one rally planner's 
concerns about the potential violence.
    We will describe some of the President's key actions on the 
evening of January 5th and the morning of January 6th, 
including how the President edited and ad-libbed his speech 
that morning at the Ellipse, directed the crowd to march to the 
Capitol, and spoke off-script in a way that further inflamed an 
already angry crowd.
    I yield to the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. Raskin.
    Mr. Raskin. Thank you, Mrs. Murphy.
    Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice Chair, four days after the 
electors met across the country and made Joe Biden the 
President-elect, Donald Trump was still trying to find a way to 
hang on to the Presidency.
    On Friday, December 18th, his team of outside advisors paid 
him a surprise visit in the White House that would quickly 
become the stuff of legend. The meeting has been called 
``unhinged,'' ``not normal,'' and the ``craziest meeting of the 
Trump Presidency.''
    The outside lawyers who had been involved in dozens of 
failed lawsuits had lots of theories supporting the Big Lie but 
no evidence to support it. As we will see, however, they 
brought to the White House a draft Executive Order that they 
had prepared for President Trump to further his ends.
    Specifically, they proposed the immediate mass seizure of 
State election machines by the U.S. military. The meeting ended 
after midnight with apparent rejection of that idea.
    In the wee hours of December 19th, dissatisfied with his 
options, Donald Trump decided to call for a large and ``wild'' 
crowd on Wednesday, January 6th, the day when Congress would 
meet to certify the electoral votes.
    Never before in American history had a President called for 
a crowd to come contest the counting of electoral votes by 
Congress or engaged in any effort designed to influence, delay, 
or obstruct the joint session of Congress in doing its work 
required by our Constitution and the Electoral Count Act.
    As we will see, Donald Trump's 1:42 a.m. tweet electrified 
and galvanized his supporters, especially the dangerous 
extremists in the Oath Keepers, the Proud Boys, and other 
racist and White nationalist groups spoiling for a fight 
against the Government.
    Three rings of interwoven attack were now operating toward 
January 6th. On the inside ring, Trump continued trying to work 
to overturn the election by getting Mike Pence to abandon his 
oath of office as Vice President and assert the unilateral 
power to reject electoral votes. This would have been a 
fundamental and unprecedented breach of the Constitution that 
would promise Trump multiple ways of staying in office.
    Meanwhile, in the middle ring, members of domestic violent 
extremist groups created an alliance, both online and in 
person, to coordinate a massive effort to storm, invade, and 
occupy the Capitol. By placing a target on the joint session of 
Congress, Trump had mobilized these groups around a common 
goal, emboldening them, strengthening their working 
relationships, and helping build their numbers.
    Finally, in the outer ring, on January 6th there assembled 
a large and angry crowd--the political force that Trump 
considered both the touchstone and the measure of his political 
power. Here were thousands of enraged Trump followers, 
thoroughly convinced by the Big Lie, who traveled from across 
the country to join Trump's ``wild'' rally to ``stop the 
steal.''
    With the proper incitement by political leaders and the 
proper instigation from the extremists, many members of this 
crowd could be led to storm the Capitol, confront the Vice 
President and Congress, and try to overturn the 2020 election 
results.
    All of these efforts would converge and explode on January 
the 6th.
    Mr. Chairman, as you know better than any other Member of 
this Committee from the wrenching struggle for voting rights in 
your beloved Mississippi, the problem of politicians whipping 
up mob violence to destroy fair elections is the oldest 
domestic enemy of constitutional democracy in America.
    Abraham Lincoln knew it too. In 1837, a racist mob in 
Alton, Illinois, broke into the offices of an abolitionist 
newspaper and killed its editor, Elijah Lovejoy.
    Lincoln wrote a speech in which he said that no ``trans-
Atlantic military giant'' could ever crush us as a Nation, even 
with all of the fortunes in the world. But if downfall ever 
comes to America, he said, we ourselves would be its ``author 
and finisher.''
    If racist mobs are encouraged by politicians to rampage and 
terrorize, Lincoln said, they will violate the rights of other 
citizens and quickly destroy the bonds of social trust 
necessary for democracy to work. Mobs and demagogues will put 
us on a path to political tyranny, Lincoln said.
    As we will see today, this very old problem has returned 
with new ferocity today, as a President who lost an election 
deployed a mob, which included dangerous extremists, to attack 
the constitutional system of election and the peaceful transfer 
of power.
    As we will see, the creation of the internet and social 
media has given today's tyrants tools of propaganda and 
disinformation that yesterday's despots could only have dreamed 
of.
    I yield back to the gentlewoman of Florida, Mrs. Murphy.
    Mrs. Murphy. Article II of the United States Constitution 
establishes the electoral college. Each State's laws provide 
that electors are to be chosen by a popular vote. On December 
14, 2020, electors met in all 50 States and the District of 
Columbia to cast their votes.
    Joseph Biden won by a margin of 306 to 232. The election 
was over. Mr. Biden was the President-elect.
    Before the electoral college met, Donald Trump and his 
allies filed dozens of legal challenges to the election, but 
they lost over and over again, including in front of multiple 
judges President Trump had nominated to the bench.
    In many of these cases, the judges were highly critical of 
the arguments put forward, explaining that no genuine evidence 
of wide-spread fraud had been presented.
    For example, a Federal judge in Pennsylvania said:

[T]his Court has been presented with strained legal arguments without 
merit and speculative accusations . . . unsupported by evidence. In the 
United States of America, this cannot justify the disenfranchisement of 
a single voter, let alone all the voters of its sixth most populated 
State.

    On December 15th, after the electoral college certified the 
outcome, the Republican Majority leader in the Senate 
acknowledged Mr. Biden's victory.

    Senator McConnell. Yesterday, electors met in all 50 States. So as 
of this morning, our country has officially a President-elect and a 
Vice President-elect. Many millions of us had hoped the Presidential 
election would yield a different result. But our system of government 
has processes to determine who will be sworn in on January the 20th. 
The electoral college has spoken. So today, I want to congratulate 
President-elect Joe Biden.

    Mrs. Murphy. Even members of President Trump's Cabinet and 
his White House staff understood the significance of his losses 
in the courts and the absence of evidence of fraud. They also 
respected the constitutional certification by the electoral 
college.
    Many of them told President Trump that it was time to 
concede the election to Mr. Biden. For example, then-Secretary 
of Labor Gene Scalia, an accomplished lawyer and the son of 
late Justice Scalia, called President Trump in mid-December and 
advised him to concede and accept the rulings of the courts.

    Secretary Scalia. So, I had to put a call into the President. I 
might have called on the 13th. We spoke, I believe, on the 14th, in 
which I conveyed to him that I thought that it was time for him to 
acknowledge that President Biden had prevailed in the election.
    But I communicated to the President that when that legal process is 
exhausted and when the electors have voted, that that's the point at 
which that outcome needs to be expected.
    I told him that I did believe yes, that once those legal processes 
were run, if fraud had not been established that had affected the 
outcome of the election, then unfortunately, I believed that what had 
to be done was concede the outcome.

    Mrs. Murphy. As you have seen in prior hearings, President 
Trump's Justice Department, his White House staff, and his 
campaign officials were repeatedly telling him that there was 
no evidence of fraud sufficient to change the outcome of the 
election.
    Last week, we conducted an 8-hour interview with President 
Trump's White House Counsel, Pat Cipollone. You will see a 
number of excerpts of that interview today and even more in our 
next hearing.
    Mr. Cipollone told us that he agreed with the testimony 
that there was no evidence of fraud sufficient to overturn the 
election.

    Mr. Heaphy. I want to start by asking if you agree, Mr. Cipollone, 
with the conclusions of Matt Morgan and Bill Barr, of all of the 
individuals who evaluated those claims, that there is no evidence of 
election fraud sufficient to undermine the outcome in any particular 
State?
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes, I agree with that.

    Mrs. Murphy. Mr. Cipollone also specifically testified that 
he believed that Donald Trump should have conceded the 
election.

    Mr. Heaphy. Did you believe, Mr. Cipollone, that the President 
should concede once you made the determination based on the 
investigations that you credited--DOJ did. Did you in your mind form 
the belief that the President should concede the election loss at a 
certain point after the election?
    Mr. Cipollone. Well, again, I was the White House Counsel. Some of 
those decisions are political. So, to the extent that--but--but if your 
question is, Did I believe he should concede the election at a point in 
time? Yes, I did.
    I believe Leader McConnell went on to the floor of the Senate, I 
believe in late December, and basically said, you know, the process is 
done. You know, that would be in line with my thinking on these things.

    Mrs. Murphy. As Attorney General Bill Barr testified, 
December 14th should have been the end of the matter.

    Attorney General Barr. December 14th was the day that the States 
certified their votes and sent them to Congress. And in my view, that 
was the end of the matter. I didn't see--you know, I thought that this 
would lead inexorably to a new administration.

    Mrs. Murphy. Mr. Cipollone also testified that the 
President's chief of staff, Mark Meadows, said he shared this 
view.

    Mr. Heaphy. As early as that November 23rd meeting, we understand 
that there was discussion about the President possibly conceding the 
election. And specifically, we understand that Mark Meadows assured 
both you and Attorney General Barr that the President would eventually 
agree to a graceful exit. Do you remember Mr. Meadows making any such 
representation?
    Mr. Cipollone. Are you saying as part of that meeting or 
separately? Again, without--without getting into that meeting, I would 
say that that is a--that is a statement and a sentiment that I heard 
from Mark Meadows.
    Mr. Heaphy. I see. And again, do you know if it was on November 
23rd or some point?
    Mr. Cipollone. Again, I--it was probably, you know, around that 
time and it was probably subsequent to that time. It wasn't a one-time 
statement.

    Mrs. Murphy. Mr. Meadows has refused to testify, and the 
Committee is in litigation with him. But many other White House 
officials shared the view that, once the litigation ended and 
the electoral college met, the election was over.
    Here is President Trump's former press secretary.

    Vice Chair Cheney. I wanted to clarify, Ms. McEnany, so back to my 
previous question. It was your view then--or was it your view that the 
efforts to overturn the election should have stopped once the 
litigation was complete?
    Ms. McEnany. In my view, upon the conclusion of litigation was when 
I began to plan for life after the administration.

    Mrs. Murphy. This is what Ivanka Trump told us.

    Mr. Heaphy. December 14th was the day on which the electoral 
college met, when these electors around the country met and cast the 
electoral votes consistent with the--the popular vote in each State. 
And--and it was obviously a public proceeding or a series of 
proceedings that President Biden had obtained the requisite number of 
electors. Was that an important day for you? Did that affect sort-of 
your planning or your realization as to whether or not there was going 
to be an end of this administration?
    Ms. Trump. I think so. I think it was my--my sentiment probably 
prior as well.

    Mrs. Murphy. Judd Deere was a White House deputy press 
secretary. This was his testimony about what he told President 
Trump.

    Mr. Deere. I told him that my personal viewpoint was that the 
electoral college had met, which is the system that our country is--is 
set under to elect a President and Vice President. And I believed at 
that point that the means for him to pursue litigation was probably 
closed.
    Mr. Wood. And do you recall what his response, if any, was?
    Mr. Deere. He disagreed.

    Mrs. Murphy. We have also seen this testimony from Attorney 
General Barr reflecting a view of the White House staff in late 
November 2020.

    Attorney General Barr. And then at that point I left. And as I 
walked out of the Oval Office, Jared was there with Dan Scavino, who 
ran his--ran the President's social media and who I thought was a 
reasonable guy and believe is a reasonable guy. And I said, how long 
is--how long is he going to carry on with this stolen election stuff? 
Where is this going to go?
    And by that time, Meadows had caught up with me and--leaving the 
office, and caught up to me and--and said that--he said, ``Look, I--I 
think that he's becoming more realistic and knows that there's a limit 
to how far he can take this.'' And then Jared said, ``You know, yeah, 
we're working on this. We're working on it.''

    Mrs. Murphy. Likewise, in this testimony, Cassidy 
Hutchinson, an aide to Mark Meadows, described her 
conversations with President Trump's Director of National 
Intelligence, John Ratcliffe, a former Republican Congressman.

    Ms. Hutchinson. He had expressed that he was concerned that it 
could spiral out of control and potentially be dangerous, either for 
our democracy or the way that things were going for the 6th.

    Mrs. Murphy. Of course, underlying all of this is the 
fundamental principle that the President of the United States 
cannot simply disregard the rulings of State and Federal 
courts, which are empowered to address specific election-
related claims. The President cannot simply pretend that the 
courts had not ruled.

    Vice Chair Cheney. By that time, the President or his associates 
had brought--had lost 60 out of 61 cases that they had brought to 
challenge different aspects of the election in a number of States. They 
lost 60 out of 61 of those cases. So, by the time we get to January 
3rd, that's--that's been clear. I assume, Pat, that you would agree the 
President is--is obligated to abide by the rulings of the courts.
    Mr. Cipollone. Of course.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And I assume you also----
    Mr. Cipollone. Everybody is obligated to abide by rulings of 
courts.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And I assume you also would agree the President 
has a particular obligation to take care that the laws be faithfully 
executed.
    Mr. Cipollone. That is one of the President's obligations, correct.

    Mrs. Murphy. Yet President Trump disregarded these court 
rulings and the counsel from his closest advisors and continued 
his efforts to cling to power.
    In our prior hearings, you have heard considerable 
testimony about President Trump's attempts to corruptly 
pressure Vice President Pence to refuse to count electoral 
votes, to corrupt the Department of Justice, to pressure State 
officials and State legislatures, and to create and submit a 
series of fake electoral slates.
    Now we will show you what other actions President Trump was 
taking between December 14, 2020, and January 6th.
    I yield to the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. Raskin.
    Mr. Raskin. Thank you, Mrs. Murphy.
    Throughout our hearings, you have heard how President Trump 
made baseless claims that voting machines were being 
manipulated by foreign powers in the 2020 election.
    You have also heard Trump's Attorney General, Bill Barr, 
describe such claims as ``complete nonsense,'' which he told 
the President. Let's review that testimony.

    Attorney General Barr. I saw absolutely zero basis for the 
allegations. But they were made in such a sensational way that they 
obviously were influencing a lot of people--members of the public--that 
there was this systemic corruption in the system and that their votes 
didn't count and that these machines controlled by somebody else were 
actually determining it, which was complete nonsense.
    And it was being laid out there. And I told them that it was--it 
was crazy stuff, and they were wasting their time on that. And it was 
doing a great, grave disservice to the country.

    Mr. Raskin. We have learned that President Trump's White 
House Counsel agreed with the Department of Justice about this.

    Mr. Heaphy. Attorney General Barr made a public announcement on 
December 1st, less than a month after the election, that he had seen no 
systemic fraud sufficient to undermine the outcome of the election. Is 
it fair to say that by December 1st, you had reached the same 
conclusion?
    Mr. Cipollone. It's fair to say that I agreed with Attorney 
General's--Attorney General Barr's conclusion on December 1st. Yes, I 
did. And I supported that conclusion.

    Mr. Raskin. However, the strong rejection of the Attorney 
General and the White House Counsel of these claims did not 
stop the President from trying to press them in public.
    But that is not all they did. Indeed, as you will see in 
this clip, the President asked Attorney General Bill Barr to 
have the Department of Justice seize voting machines in the 
States.

    Attorney General Barr. My recollection is the President said 
something like, ``Well, we could get to the bottom--you know, some 
people say we could get to the bottom of this if--if the Department 
seizes the machines.'' It was a typical way of raising a point. And I 
said, absolutely not. There's no probable cause, and I'm not going to 
seize any machines. And that was that.
    Mr. Heaphy. Yeah.

    Mr. Raskin. But this wasn't the end of the matter. On the 
evening of December 18, 2020, Sidney Powell, General Michael 
Flynn, and others entered the White House for an unplanned 
meeting with the President--the meeting that would last 
multiple hours and become hot-blooded and contentious.
    The Executive Order behind me on the screen was drafted on 
December the 16th, just 2 days after the electoral college 
vote, by several of the President's outside advisors over a 
luncheon at the Trump International Hotel.
    As you can see here, this proposed order directs the 
Secretary of Defense to seize voting machines ``effective 
immediately.''
    But it goes even further than that.
    Under the order, President Trump would appoint a Special 
Counsel with the power to seize machines and then charge people 
with crimes, with ``all resources necessary to carry out her 
duties.''
    The specific plan was to name Sidney Powell as Special 
Counsel, the Trump lawyer who had spent the post-election 
period making outlandish claims about Venezuelan and Chinese 
interference in the election, among others.
    Here is what White House Counsel Pat Cipollone had to say 
about Sidney Powell's qualifications to take on such expansive 
authority.

    Mr. Cipollone. I don't think Sidney--Sidney Powell would say that I 
thought it was a good idea to appoint her Special Counsel. I was 
vehemently opposed--I didn't think she should have been appointed to 
anything.

    Mr. Raskin. Sidney Powell told the President that these 
steps were justified because of her evidence of foreign 
interference in the 2020 election. However, as we have seen, 
Trump's allies had no such evidence and, of course, no legal 
authority for the Federal Government to seize State voting 
machines.
    Here is Mr. Cipollone again denouncing Sidney Powell's 
``terrible idea.''

    Mr. Cipollone. There was a real question in my mind and a real 
concern, you know, particularly after the Attorney General had reached 
a conclusion that there wasn't sufficient election fraud to change the 
outcome of the election when other people kept suggesting that there 
was. The answer is, what is it? And at some point, you have to put up 
or shut up. That was my view.
    Mr. Heaphy. Why was this, on a broader scale, a bad idea for the 
country?
    Mr. Cipollone. To have the Federal Government seize voting 
machines? That's a terrible idea for the country. That's not how we do 
things in the United States. There's no legal authority to do that. And 
there is a way to contest elections. You know, that--that happens all 
the time. But the idea that the Federal Government could come in and 
seize election machines, no. That--that's--I don't--I don't understand 
why we even have to tell you why that's a bad idea for the country. 
It's a terrible idea.

    Mr. Raskin. For all of its absurdity, the December 18th 
meeting was critically important, because President Trump got 
to watch up close for several hours as his White House Counsel 
and other White House lawyers destroyed the baseless factual 
claims and ridiculous legal arguments being offered by Sidney 
Powell, Mike Flynn, and others.
    President Trump now knew all these claims were nonsense, 
not just from his able White House lawyers but also from his 
own Department of Justice officials and, indeed, his own 
campaign officials.
    As White House Counsel Cipollone told us:

    Mr. Cipollone. With respect to the whole election fraud issue, it 
to me is sort of if you're going to make those kind of claims--and 
people were open to them early on because people were making all sorts 
of claims. And the real question is: show the evidence. Okay?

    Mr. Raskin. It wasn't just the Justice Department, the 
Trump Campaign, and the Trump White House lawyers who knew it. 
Even Rudy Giuliani's own legal team admitted that they did not 
have any real evidence of fraud sufficient to change the 
election result.
    Here is an email from Rudy Giuliani's lead investigator, 
Bernie Kerik, on December 28, 2020, to Chief of Staff Mark 
Meadows. Mr. Kerik did not mince any words. ``We can do all the 
investigations we want later, but if the President plans on 
winning, it's the legislators that have to be moved, and this 
will do just that.''
    Mr. Kerik wanted the President to win. What he didn't say 
in this email was what he would later tell the Select Committee 
in a letter that his lawyer wrote to us in November.
    The letter said, ``It was impossible for Mr. Kerik and his 
team to determine conclusively whether there was wide-spread 
fraud or whether that wide-spread fraud would have altered the 
outcome of the election.''
    In other words, even Rudy Giuliani's own legal team knew 
before January 6th that they hadn't collected enough actual 
evidence to support any of their ``stolen election'' claims.
    Here is what Trump Campaign Senior Advisor Jason Miller 
told the Committee about some of the so-called evidence of 
fraud that the campaign had seen from the Giuliani team.

    Mr. George. So do you know what the examples of fraud--numbers, 
names, and supporting evidence--was that you sent to Mo Brooks's 
office. And when I say you, I mean you or the campaign.
    Mr. Jason Miller. There are some very, very general documents as 
far as--as far as, say, for example, here are the handful of dead 
people in several different States. Here are explanations on a couple 
of the legal challenges as far as the saying that the--the rules were 
changed an unconstitutional manner. But it was--to say that it was spin 
is--is probably an understatement.

    Mr. Raskin. Here is how President Trump's deputy campaign 
manager described the evidence of fraud that the campaign had 
seen.

    Ms. Lucier. You never came to learn or understand that Mayor 
Giuliani had--had produced evidence of election fraud. Is that fair?
    Mr. Justin Clark. That's fair.

    Mr. Raskin. Here is testimony that we received from the 
speaker of the Arizona House of Representatives, Rusty Bowers, 
about an exchange that he had with Rudy Giuliani after the 
election.

    Mr. Schiff. At some point, did one of them make a comment that they 
didn't have evidence but they had a lot of theories?
    Mr. Bowers. That was Mr. Giuliani.

    Mr. Raskin. Chief of Staff Mark Meadows told people that he 
thought Trump should concede around the time the electoral 
college certified the result. But, nonetheless, he later worked 
to try to facilitate President Trump's wishes.
    Here is what Cassidy Hutchinson told us.

    Ms. Hutchinson. During this period, he--I perceived his goal with 
all of this to keep Trump in office. You know, he had very seriously 
and deeply considered the allegations of voter fraud. But when he began 
acknowledging that maybe there wasn't enough voter fraud to overturn 
the election, you know, I--I witnessed him start to explore potential 
constitutional loopholes more extensively, which I then connected with 
John Eastman's theories.

    Mr. Raskin. The startling conclusion is this: Even an 
agreed-upon complete lack of evidence could not stop President 
Trump, Mark Meadows, and their allies from trying to overturn 
the results of a free and fair election.
    So, let's return to that meeting at the White House on the 
evening of December 18th. That night, a group showed up at the 
White House, including Sidney Powell, retired Lieutenant 
General Michael Flynn, and former Overstock.com CEO Patrick 
Byrne.
    After gaining access to the building from a junior White 
House staffer, the group made their way to the Oval Office. 
They were able to speak with the President by himself for some 
time until White House officials learned of the meeting.
    What ensued was a heated and profane clash between this 
group and President Trump's White House advisors, who traded 
personal insults, accusations of disloyalty to the President, 
and even challenges to physically fight.
    The meeting would last over 6 hours, beginning here in the 
Oval Office, moving around the West Wing, and many hours later 
ending up in the President's private residence.
    The Select Committee has spoken with six of the 
participants, as well as staffers who could hear the screaming 
from outside the Oval Office. What took place next is best told 
in their own words, as you will see from this video.

    Mr. Harris. Did you believe that it was going to work, that you 
were going be able to get to see the President without an appointment?
    Ms. Powell. I had no idea.
    Mr. Harris. In fact, you did get to see the President without an 
appointment.
    Ms. Powell. We did.
    Mr. Harris. How much time did you have alone with the President? I 
say alone, you had other people with you----
    Ms. Powell. Right.
    Mr. Harris [continuing]. But, I think from his aides before the 
crowd came running.
    Ms. Powell. Probably no more than 10 or 15 minutes.
    Mr. Harris. Was in that----
    Ms. Powell [continuing]. I bet Pat Cipollone set a new land speed 
record.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Cipollone. I got a call either from Molly or from Eric 
Herschmann that I needed to get to the Oval Office.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Hutchinson. So that was the first point that I had recognized, 
okay, there is nobody in there from the White House. Mark's gone. 
What's going on right now.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Cipollone. I opened the door, and I walked in. I saw General 
Flynn; I saw Sidney Powell sitting there. [ . . . ]
    I was not happy to see the people who were in the Oval Office.
    Mr. Heaphy. Explain why.
    Mr. Cipollone. Well, again, I--I don't think they were providing--
well, first of all, the Overstock person I--I've never met--never. I 
never knew who this guy was. Actually, the first thing I did, I walked 
in, I looked at him, and I said, who are you? And he told me. I don't 
think--I don't think any of these people were providing the President 
with good advice. And so, I--I--I didn't understand how they had gotten 
in.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Harris. In the short period of time that you had with the 
President, did he seem receptive to the presentation that you were 
making?
    Ms. Powell. He was very interested in hearing particularly about 
the CISA findings and the terms of 13848 that apparently nobody else 
had bothered to inform him of.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Herschmann. And I was asking, like, are you're claiming the 
Democrats were working with Hugo Chavez, Venezuelans, and whomever 
else. And at one point, General Flynn took out a diagram that 
supposedly showed IP addresses all over the world. And--or ISP--who 
was--who was communicating with whom via the machines and some comment 
about like Nest thermostats being hooked up to the internet.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. George. So, it's been reported that during this meeting Ms. 
Powell talked about Dominion voting machines and made various election 
fraud claims that involve foreign countries such as Venezuela, Iran, 
and China. Is that accurate?
    General Flynn. The Fifth.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. George. Was the meeting tense?
    Mr. Lyons. Oh yeah. I--it was not a casual meeting.
    Mr. George. Explain.
    Mr. Lyons. I mean, at times, there were people shouting at each 
other, hurling insults at each other. It wasn't just sort of people 
sitting around on the couch like chit-chatting.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Lucier. Do you recall whether he raised to Ms. Powell the fact 
that she and the campaign had lost all of the 60 cases that they had 
brought in litigation?
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes. He raised that.
    Ms. Lucier. And what was the response?
    Mr. Cipollone. I don't remember what she said. I don't think it was 
a good response.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Powell. Cipollone and Herschmann and whoever the other guy was 
showed nothing but contempt and disdain of the President.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Cipollone. I remember the three of them were really sort-of 
forcefully attacking me verbally. Eric, Derek, and we were pushing 
back, and we were asking one simple question as a--as a general matter: 
Where is the evidence? So----
    Mr. Heaphy. What response did you get when you asked Ms. Powell and 
her colleagues where's the evidence?
    Mr. Cipollone. A variety of responses based on my current 
recollection including, you know, I can't believe you would say 
something, like, you know, things like this. Like, ``What do you mean 
where's the evidence? You should know.'' Yeah, I--things like that or, 
you know, a disregard, I would say, a general disregard for the 
importance of actually backing up what you say with facts.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Lyons. And, you know, then there was discussion of, well, you 
know, we don't have it now, but we will have it or whatever.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Powell. I mean, if--if it had been me sitting in his chair, I 
would have fired all of `em that night and had `em escorted out of the 
building.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Herschmann. Which Derek and I both challenged what she was 
saying. And she says, ``Well, the judges are corrupt.'' And I was like, 
every one? Every single case that you've done in the country you guys 
lost, every one of them is corrupt? Even the ones we appointed? And 
[inaudible] I'm being nice. I was much more harsh to her.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Apecechea. So, one of the other things that's been reported 
that was said during this meeting was that President Trump told White 
House lawyers, Mr. Herschmann and Mr. Cipollone, that they weren't 
offering him any solutions, but Ms. Powell and others were. So, why not 
try what Ms. Powell and others were proposing? Do you remember anything 
along those lines being said by President Trump?
    Mr. Lyons. I do. That sounds right.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Herschmann. I think that it got to the point where the 
screaming was completely, completely out there. [ . . . ]
    I mean, you had people walk in, it was late at night, had been a 
long day. And what they were proposing, I thought, was nuts.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Giuliani. I'm gonna--I'm gonna categorically describe it as: 
You guys are not tough enough. Or maybe I put it another way: You're a 
bunch of pussies. Excuse the expression, but that--that's I--I'm almost 
certain the word was used.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Herschmann. Flynn screamed at me that I was a quitter and 
everything, kept on standing up and turning around and screaming at me. 
And at a certain point, I had it with him. So, I yelled back: Better 
come over, better sit your F'ing ass back down.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Giuliani. The President and the White House team went upstairs 
to the residence, but to the public part of the residence. You know, 
the big--the big parlor where you can have meetings in the conference 
room.
    Mr. Harris. Yellow oval. They call that the yellow oval.
    Mr. Giuliani. Yes, exactly. The yellow oval office. I always called 
it the upper. And I'm not exactly sure where the Sidney group went. I 
think maybe the Roosevelt Room. And I stayed in the Cabinet Room, which 
is kind of cool. I really liked that, all my--all by myself.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Lyons. At the end of the day, we landed where we started the 
meeting, at least from a structural standpoint, which was Sidney Powell 
was fighting. Mike Flynn was fighting. They were looking for avenues 
that would enable--that would result in President Trump remaining 
President Trump for a second term.

    Mr. Raskin. The meeting finally ended after midnight.
    Here are text messages sent by Cassidy Hutchinson during 
and after the meeting.
    As you can see, Ms. Hutchinson reported that the meeting in 
the West Wing was ``unhinged.''
    The meeting finally broke up after midnight, during the 
early morning of December 19th. Cassidy Hutchinson captured the 
moment of Mark Meadows escorting Rudy Giuliani off the White 
House grounds to ``make sure he didn't wander back to the 
mansion.''
    Certain accounts of this meeting indicate that President 
Trump actually granted Ms. Powell a security clearance and 
appointed her to a somewhat-ill-defined position of Special 
Counsel.

    Ms. Powell. He asked Pat Cipollone if he had the authority to name 
a Special Counsel, and he said yes. And then he asked him if he had the 
authority to give me whatever security clearance I needed, and Pat 
Cipollone said yes. And then the President said, ``Okay, you know, I'm 
naming her that, and I'm giving her security clearance.'' And then 
shortly before we left and it totally blew up, that's when Cipollone 
and/or Herschmann and whoever the other young man was said, ``You can 
name her whatever you want to name her, and no one's going to pay any 
attention to it.''
    Mr. Harris. How did he respond? How did the President respond to 
that?
    Ms. Powell. Something like, ``You see what I deal with. I deal with 
this all the time.''

    Mr. Raskin. Over the ensuing days, no further steps were 
taken to appoint Sidney Powell. But there is some ambiguity 
about what the President actually said and did during the 
meeting.
    Here is how Pat Cipollone described it.

    Mr. Cipollone. I don't know what her understanding of whether she 
had been appointed, what she had been appointed to, okay? In my view, 
she hadn't been appointed to anything and ultimately wasn't appointed 
to anything, because there had to be other steps taken. And that was my 
view when I left the meeting. But she may have a different view, and 
others may have a different view, and--and the President may have a 
different view.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Were any steps taken, including the President 
himself telling her she'd been appointed?
    Mr. Cipollone. Again, I'm not going to get into what the President 
said in the meeting. You know, my recollection is you're not appointed 
even--you're not appointed until--until steps are taken to get the 
paperwork done, get--and when I left the meeting, okay--I guess--I 
guess what I'm trying to say is I'm not going to get into what the 
President said or want--said he wanted.
    Mr. Raskin. Mr. Cipollone, when the matter continued to flare up 
over the next several days, was it your understanding that Sidney 
Powell was still seeking an appointment or that she was asserting that 
she had been appointed by the President at the December 18th meeting?
    Mr. Cipollone. You know, now that you mention it, probably both, 
you know, in--in terms of like I think she was--I think she may have 
been of the view that she had been appointed and was seeking to, you 
know, get--get that done, and--and--and that she should be appointed.

    Mr. Raskin. As you listen to these clips, remember that Ms. 
Powell, the person who President Trump tried to make Special 
Counsel, was ultimately sanctioned by a Federal court and sued 
by Dominion Voting Systems for defamation. In her own defense 
to that lawsuit, Sidney Powell argued that ``no reasonable 
person would conclude that the statements were truly statements 
of fact.''
    Not long after Sidney Powell, General Flynn, and Rudy 
Giuliani left the White House in the early hours of the 
morning, President Trump turned away from both his outside 
advisors' most outlandish and unworkable schemes and his White 
House Counsel's advice to swallow hard and accept the reality 
of his loss. Instead, Donald Trump issued a tweet that would 
galvanize his followers, unleash a political firestorm, and 
change the course of our history as a country.
    Trump's purpose was to mobilize a crowd. How do you 
mobilize a crowd in 2020? With millions of followers on 
Twitter, President Trump knew exactly how to do it.
    At 1:42 a.m. on December 19, 2020, shortly after the last 
participants left the unhinged meeting, Trump sent out the 
tweet with his explosive invitation.
    Trump repeated his Big Lie and claimed it was 
``statistically impossible to have lost the 2020 election'' 
before calling for a ``Big protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be 
there, will be wild!''
    Trump supporters responded immediately.
    Women for America First, a pro-Trump organizing group, had 
previously applied for a rally permit for January 22nd and 23rd 
in Washington, DC, several days after Joe Biden was to be 
inaugurated. But in the hours after the tweet, they moved their 
permit to January 6th, 2 weeks before. This rescheduling 
created the rally where Trump would eventually speak.
    The next day, Ali Alexander, leader of the Stop the Steal 
organization and a key mobilizer of Trump supporters, 
registered WildProtest.com, named after Trump's tweet. 
WildProtest.com provided comprehensive information about 
numerous newly-organized protest events in Washington. It 
included event times, places, speakers, and details on 
transportation to Washington, DC.
    Meanwhile, other key Trump supporters, including far-right 
media personalities, began promoting the wild protest on 
January 6th.

    Mr. Jones. It's Saturday, December 19th. The year is 2020, and one 
of the most historic events in American history has just taken place. 
President Trump, in the early morning hours today, tweeted that he 
wants the American people to march on Washington, DC, on January 6, 
2021.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Pool. And now Donald Trump is calling on his supporters to 
descend on Washington, DC, January 6th.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Jones. He is now calling on we the people to take action and to 
show our numbers.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Bracken. We're going to only be saved by millions of Americans 
moving to Washington, occupying the entire area, if--if necessary, 
storming right into the Capitol. You know, they're--we know the rules 
of engagement. If you have enough people, you can push down any kind of 
a fence or a wall.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Pool. This could be Trump's last stand. And it's a time when he 
has specifically called on his supporters to arrive in DC. That's 
something that may actually be the big push Trump supporters need to 
say: This is it. It's now or never.
                                 ______
                                 
    Salty Cracker. Ya better understand something, son. Ya better 
understand something. Red wave, bitch. Red wed--there's gonna be a red 
wedding going down January 6th.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Pool. On that day, Trump says: Show up for a protest. It's 
gonna be wild. And based on what we've already seen from the previous 
events, I think Trump is absolutely correct.
                                 ______
                                 
    Salty Cracker. Motherfucker, you better look outside. You better 
look out--January 6th. Kick that fucking door open, look down the 
street. There're gonna be a million plus geeked up, armed Americans.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Jones. The time for games is over. The time for action is now. 
Where were you when history called? Where were you when you and your 
children's destiny and future was on the line?

    Mr. Raskin. In that clip, you heard one of Trump's 
supporters predict a ``red wedding,'' which is a pop culture 
reference to mass slaughter.
    But the point is that Trump's call to Washington 
reverberated powerfully and pervasively online.
    The Committee has interviewed a former Twitter employee who 
explained the effect that Trump had on the Twitter platform. 
This employee was on the team responsible for platform and 
content moderation policies on Twitter throughout 2020 and 
2021.
    The employee testified that Twitter considered adopting a 
stricter content moderation policy after President Trump told 
the Proud Boys to ``stand back and stand by'' from the lectern 
at the September 29th Presidential debate, but Twitter chose 
not to act.
    Here is the former employee, whose voice has been obscured 
to protect their identity, discussing Trump's ``stand back and 
stand by'' comment and the effect it had.

    Former Twitter Employee. My concern was that the former President, 
for seemingly the first time, was speaking directly to extremist 
organizations and giving them directives. We had not seen that sort-of 
direct communication before, and that concerned me.
    Mr. Glick. So, just to clarify further, you were worried, others at 
Twitter were worried, that the President might use your platform to 
speak directly to folks who might be incited to violence?
    Former Twitter Employee. Yes. I believe that Twitter relished in 
the knowledge that they were also the favorite and most used service of 
the former President and enjoyed having that sort of power within the 
social media ecosystem.
    Mr. Glick. If President Trump were anyone else, would it have taken 
until January 8, 2021, for him to be suspended?
    Former Twitter Employee. Absolutely not. If Donald--if former-
President Donald Trump were any other user on Twitter, he would have 
been permanently suspended a very long time ago.

    Mr. Raskin. Despite these grave concerns, Trump remained on 
the platform completely unchecked. Then came the December 19th 
tweet and everything it inspired.

    Former Twitter Employee. It was--it felt as if--if a mob was being 
organized, and they were gathering together their weaponry and their 
logic and their reasoning behind why they were prepared to fight.
    Prior to December 19th, again, it was--it was vague. It was--it was 
nonspecific but very clear that individuals were ready, willing, and 
able to take up arms. After this tweet on December 19th, again, it 
became clear not only were these individuals ready and willing, but the 
leader of their cause was asking them to join him in this cause and in 
fighting for this cause in DC on January 6th as well.
    I will also say what shocked me was the responses to these tweets, 
right? So, these were--a lot of the ``locked and loaded,'' ``stand 
back, stand by,'' those tweets were in response to Donald Trump saying 
things like this, right? So, there would be a response that said, ``Big 
protest in DC on January 6th, be there, be wild,'' and someone would 
respond and say, ``I'm locked and loaded and ready for civil war part 
two,'' right?
    I very much believe that Donald Trump posting this tweet on 
December 19th was essentially staking a flag in DC on January 6th for 
his supporters to come and rally.
    Mr. Glick. And you were concerned about the potential for this 
gathering becoming violent?
    Former Twitter Employee. Absolutely.

    Mr. Raskin. Indeed, many of Trump's followers took to 
social media to declare that they were ready to answer Trump's 
call.
    One user asked: ``Is the 6th D-Day? Is that why Trump wants 
everyone there?''
    Another asserted: ``Trump just told us all to come armed. 
Fucking A, this is happening.''
    A third took it even further: ``It `will be wild' means we 
need volunteers for the firing squad.''
    Jim Watkins, the owner of 8kun, the fringe online forum 
that was birthplace of the QAnon extremist movement, confirmed 
the importance of Trump's tweet.

    Mr. Glick. Why did you first decide to go to DC for January 6th?
    Mr. Watkins. When--when the President of the United States 
announced that he was going to have a rally, then I bought a ticket and 
went.

    Mr. Raskin. Watkins was at the Capitol on January 6th. Some 
who have since been indicted for their involvement in the 
attack on the Capitol also responded. One of them posted on the 
19th: ``Calling all patriots. Be in Washington, DC, January 
6th. This wasn't organized by any group. DJT has invited us, 
and it is going to be `wild.' ''
    Some of the online rhetoric turned openly homicidal and 
White nationalist.
    Such as: ``Why don't we just kill them? Every last 
Democrat, down to the last man, woman, and child?''
    And: ``It's time for the day of the rope. White revolution 
is the only solution.''
    Others realized that police would be standing in the way of 
their effort to overturn the election.
    So one wrote: ``I am ready to die for my beliefs. Are you 
ready to die police?''
    Another wrote on TheDonald.win: ``Cops don't have 
`standing' if they are laying on the ground in a pool of their 
own blood.''
    TheDonald.win was an openly racist and antisemitic forum.
    The Select Committee deposed that site's founder, Jody 
Williams. He confirmed how the President's tweet created a 
laser-like focus on the date of January the 6th.

    Mr. Williams. And people had been talking about going to DC since 
the election was over.
    Mr. Glick. And do you recall whether or not the conversation around 
those dates centered on the 6th after the President's tweet?
    Mr. Williams. Oh, sure. Yeah. I mean after it was announced that, 
you know, he was going to be there on the 6th to talk, yes. Then--then 
anything else was kind of shut out, and it was just gonna be on the 
6th.
    Mr. Glick. Okay. And that was pretty clearly reflected in the--the 
content on--on the site?
    Mr. Williams. Yeah. Yeah, sure.

    Mr. Raskin. On that site, many shared plans and violent 
threats.
    ``Bring handcuffs and wait near the tunnels,'' wrote one 
user.
    A commenter replied suggesting ``zip ties'' instead. One 
post encouraged others to come with ``body armor, knuckles, 
shields, bats, pepper spray, whatever it takes.'' All of those 
were used on the 6th.
    The post concluded: ``Join your local Proud Boys chapter as 
well.''
    TheDonald.win featured discussions of the tunnels beneath 
the Capitol Complex, suggestions for targeting Members of 
Congress, and encouragement to attend this once-in-a-lifetime 
event.
    While Trump supporters grew more aggressive online, he 
continued to rile up his base on Twitter.
    He said there was overwhelming evidence that the election 
was the ``biggest scam in our nation's history.''
    As you can see, the President continued to boost the event, 
tweeting about it more than a dozen times in the lead-up to 
January the 6th.
    Mr. Chairman, I reserve.
    Chairman Thompson. The Chair requests that those in the 
hearing room remain seated until the Capitol Police have 
escorted Members from the room.
    Pursuant to the order of the Committee of today, the Chair 
declares the Committee in recess for a period of approximately 
10 minutes.
    [Accordingly, at 2:08 p.m., the Committee recessed until 
2:33 p.m., when it was called to order by the Chairman.]
    Chairman Thompson. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Maryland, Mr. Raskin.
    Mr. Raskin. Mr. Chairman, President Trump's tweet drew tens 
of thousands of Americans to Washington to form the angry crowd 
that would be transformed on January the 6th into a violent 
mob.
    Dr. Donell Harvin, who was the chief of Homeland Security 
and Intelligence for D.C., told the Committee how his team saw 
Trump's December 19th tweet unite violent groups across the 
spectrum on the far right.

    Dr. Harvin. We got derogatory information through OSINT suggesting 
that some very, very violent individuals were organizing to come to 
D.C.; and not only were they organizing to come to D.C., but they 
were--these groups, these nonaligned groups were aligning.
    And so all the red flags went up at that point, you know, when you 
have armed militia, you know, collaborating with White supremacy 
groups, collaborating with conspiracy theory groups online all toward a 
common goal, you start seeing what we call in, you know, terrorism, a 
blended ideology, and that's a very, very bad sign. [ . . . ]
    [T]hen, when they were clearly across--not just across one platform 
but across multiple platforms of these groups coordinating, not just 
like chatting, ``Hey, how's it going? What's the weather like where 
you're at?'' But like, ``What are you bringing? What are you wearing? 
You know, where do we meet up? Do you have plans for the Capitol?'' 
That's operational--that's like preoperational intelligence, right, and 
that is something that's clearly alarming.

    Mr. Raskin. The Proud Boys and the Oath Keepers are two key 
groups that responded immediately to President Trump's call. 
The Proud Boys are a far-right street-fighting group that 
glorifies violence and White supremacy.
    The Oath Keepers are extremists who promote a wide range of 
conspiracy theories and sought to act as a private paramilitary 
force for Donald Trump. The Department of Justice has charged 
leaders of both groups with seditious conspiracy to overthrow 
the Government of the United States on January the 6th.
    Trump's December 19th tweet motivated these two extremists 
groups, which have historically not worked together, to 
coordinate their activities.
    December 19th, at 10:22 a.m., just hours after President 
Trump's tweet, Kelly Meggs, the head of the Florida Oath 
Keepers, declared an alliance among the Oath Keepers, the Proud 
Boys, and the Florida Three Percenters, another militia group. 
He wrote: ``We have decided to work together and shut this shit 
down.''
    Phone records obtained by the Select Committee show that, 
later that afternoon, Mr. Meggs called Proud Boys leader 
Enrique Tarrio, and they spoke for several minutes. The very 
next day, the Proud Boys got to work.
    The Proud Boys launched an encrypted chat called the 
Ministry of Self-Defense. The Committee obtained hundreds of 
these messages, which show strategic and tactical planning 
about January the 6th, including maps of Washington, DC, that 
pinpoint the location of police.
    In the weeks leading up to the attack, leaders in both the 
Proud Boys and the Oath Keepers worked with Trump allies. One 
such ally was Lieutenant General Michael Flynn, Trump's former 
National Security Advisor and one of the participants in the 
unhinged meeting at the White House on December 18th.
    He also had connections to the Oath Keepers.
    This photo from December 12th shows Flynn and Patrick 
Byrne, another Trump ally, who was present at that December 
18th meeting, guarded by indicted Oath Keeper Roberto Minuta.
    Another view of the scene shows Oath Keepers leader Stewart 
Rhodes in the picture as well.
    Another central figure with ties to this network of 
extremist groups was Roger Stone, a political consultant and 
long-time confidant of President Trump. He pardoned both Flynn 
and Stone in the weeks between the election on November 3rd and 
January 6th.
    In the same time frame, Stone communicated with both the 
Proud Boys and the Oath Keepers regularly. The Committee 
obtained encrypted content from a group chat called Friends of 
Stone, FOS, which included Stone, Rhodes, Tarrio, and Ali 
Alexander. The chat focused on various pro-Trump events in 
November and December of 2020, as well as January 6th.
    As you can see here, Stewart Rhodes himself urged the 
Friends of Stone to have people go to their State capitols if 
they could not make it to Washington for the first Million MAGA 
March on November 14th.
    These Friends of Roger Stone had a significant presence at 
multiple pro-Trump events after the election, including in 
Washington on December the 12th. On that day, Stewart Rhodes 
called for Donald Trump to invoke martial law promising blood-
shed if he did not.

    Mr. Rhodes. He needs to know from you that you are with him--that 
if he does not do it now, when he is Commander in Chief, we're going to 
have to do it ourselves later in a much more desperate, much more 
bloody war. Let's get it on now while he is still the Commander in 
Chief. Hooah!

    Mr. Raskin. That night, the Proud Boys engaged in violence 
on the streets of Washington and hurled aggressive insults at 
the police.

    Voice. You're oath breakers. Do your fucking job! Give us 1 hour! 
One hour!

    Mr. Raskin. Just the previous night, the co-host of 
InfoWars issued an ominous warning at a rally alongside Roger 
Stone and Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio.

    Voice. I don't give a shit. [inaudible]
    Mr. Shroyer. We will be back in January! [applause]

    Mr. Raskin. Encrypted chats obtained by the Select 
Committee show that Kelly Meggs, the indicted leader of the 
Florida Oath Keepers, spoke directly with Roger Stone about 
security on January 5th and 6th. In fact, on January 6th, Stone 
was guarded by two Oath Keepers who have since been criminally 
indicted for seditious conspiracy.
    One of them later pleaded guilty and, according to the 
Department of Justice, admitted that the Oath Keepers were 
ready to use ``lethal force, if necessary, against anyone who 
tried to remove President Trump from the White House, including 
the National Guard.''
    As we have seen, the Proud Boys were also part of the 
Friends of Stone network. Stone's ties to the Proud Boys go 
back many years. He has even taken their so-called ``Fraternity 
Creed'' required for the first level of initialization to the 
group.

    Mr. Stone. Hi, I'm Roger Stone. I'm a Western chauvinist, and I 
refuse to apologize for creating the modern world.
    Voice. Thank you, Roger.

    Mr. Raskin. Kellye SoRelle, a lawyer who assists the Oath 
Keepers and a volunteer lawyer for the Trump Campaign, 
explained to the Committee how Roger Stone and other figures 
brought extremists of different stripes and views together.

    Mr. Childress. You mentioned that Mr. Stone wanted to start this 
Stop the Steal series of rallies. Who did you consider the leader of 
these rallies? It sounds like from what you just said it was Mr. Stone, 
Mr. Jones, and Mr. Ali Alexander. Is that correct?
    Ms. SoRelle. Those are the ones that became, like, the center point 
for everything.

    Mr. Raskin. We will learn more from Mrs. Murphy about these 
individuals and their involvement in the days leading up to the 
violent attack on January 6th. We will also hear how they were 
allowed to speak at a rally for President Trump the night 
before January 6th, even though organizers had expressed 
serious concerns about their violent and extremist rhetoric 
directly to Mark Meadows.
    You will hear testimony from White House aides who were 
with the President as he watched the crowd from the Oval Office 
and will testify about how excited he was for the following 
day.
    Let me note now that our investigation continues on these 
critical issues. We have only shown a small fraction of what we 
have found.
    I look forward to the public release of more of our 
findings later, Mr. Chairman.
    I now yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Florida, Mrs. 
Murphy.
    Mrs. Murphy. During our most recent hearing, the Committee 
showed some evidence of what President Trump, Chief of Staff 
Mark Meadows, and other White House officials knew about the 
potential for violence on January 6th. Despite this 
information, they made no effort to cancel the rally, halt the 
march to the Capitol, or even to lower the temperature among 
President Trump's supporters.
    Katrina Pierson, one of the organizers of January 6th rally 
and a former campaign spokeswoman for President Trump, grew 
increasingly apprehensive after learning that multiple 
activists had been proposed as speakers for the January 6th 
rally. These included some of the people we discussed earlier 
in this hearing: Roger Stone, a long-time outside advisor to 
President Trump; Alex Jones, the founder of the conspiracy 
theory website InfoWars; and Ali Alexander, an activist known 
for his violent political rhetoric.
    On December 30th, Ms. Pierson exchanged text messages with 
another key rally organizer about why people like Mr. Alexander 
and Mr. Jones were being suggested as speakers at the 
President's rally on January 6th.
    Ms. Pierson's explanation was: ``POTUS.''
    She remarks that the President ``likes the crazies.''
    The Committee asked Ms. Pierson about these messages, and 
this is what she said:

    Mr. Tonolli. So when you said that he likes the crazies, were you 
talking about President Trump?
    Ms. Pierson. Yes, I was talking about President Trump. He loved 
people who viciously defended him in public.
    Mr. Tonolli. But consistent in terms of the support for these 
people, at least with what the President likes, from what you could 
tell?
    Ms. Pierson. Yes. The--the people that would be very, very vicious 
in publicly defending him.

    Mrs. Murphy. On January 2nd, Ms. Pierson's concerns about 
the potential rally speakers had grown serious enough that she 
reached out to Mr. Meadows directly.
    She wrote: ``Good afternoon. Would you mind giving me a 
call regarding this January 6th event? Things have gotten 
crazy, and I desperately need some direction. Please.''
    According to phone records obtained by the Committee, Ms. 
Pierson received a phone call from Mr. Meadows 8 minutes later. 
Here is what Ms. Pierson said about that conversation.

    Mr. Tonolli. So what specifically did you tell him, though, about 
other--other events?
    Ms. Pierson. Just that there were a bunch of entities coming in. 
Some were very suspect, but they're going to be on other--on other 
stages, some on other days. A very, very brief overview of what was 
actually happening and why I raised red flags.
    Mr. Tonolli. And when you told him that people were very suspect, 
what--what did--did you tell him what you meant by that, or what did 
you convey to him about what you were--the problems with these folks?
    Ms. Pierson. I think I even texted him some of my concerns. But I 
did briefly go over some of the concerns that I had raised to everybody 
with Alex Jones or Ali Alexander and some of the rhetoric that they 
were doing. I probably mentioned to him that they had already caused 
trouble at the other capitols or at the previous event--the previous 
march that they did for protesting. And I just had a concern about it.

    Mrs. Murphy. Ms. Pierson was especially concerned about Ali 
Alexander and Alex Jones because, in November 2020, both men 
and some of their supporters, had entered the Georgia State 
Capitol to protest the results of the 2020 election.
    Ms. Pierson believed that she mentioned this to Mark 
Meadows on this January 2nd call. Notably, January 2nd is the 
same day on which, according to Cassidy Hutchinson, Mr. Meadows 
warned her of things--that things might get ``real, real bad'' 
on January 6th.
    After her January 2nd call with Mr. Meadows, Katrina 
Pierson sent an email to fellow rally organizers. She wrote: 
``POTUS expectations are to have something intimate at the 
Ellipse and call on everyone to march to the Capitol.''
    The President's own documents suggest that the President 
had decided to call on his supporters to go to the Capitol on 
January 6th but that he chose not to widely announce it until 
his speech on the Ellipse that morning.
    The Committee has obtained this draft, undated tweet from 
the National Archives. It includes a stamp stating: ``President 
has seen.''
    The draft tweet reads: ``I will be making a big speech at 
10 a.m. on January 6th at the Ellipse south of the White House. 
Please arrive early. Massive crowds expected. March to the 
Capitol after. Stop the Steal.''
    Although this tweet was never sent, rally organizers were 
discussing and preparing for the march to the Capitol in the 
days leading up to January 6th.
    This is a January 4th text message from a rally organizer 
to Mike Lindell, the MyPillow CEO. The organizer says: ``You 
know, this stays between us. We are having a second stage at 
the Supreme Court again after the Ellipse. POTUS is going to 
have us march there/the Capitol. It cannot get out about the 
second stage because people will try and set up another and 
sabotage it. It can also not get out about the march because I 
will be in trouble with the National Park Service and all the 
agencies. But POTUS is going to just call for it 
`unexpectedly.' ''
    The end of the message indicates that the President's plan 
to have his followers march to the Capitol was not being 
broadly discussed. Then, on the morning of January 5th, Ali 
Alexander, whose firebrand style concerned Katrina Pierson, 
sent a similar text to a conservative journalist.
    Mr. Alexander said: ``Tomorrow: Ellipse then U.S. Capitol. 
Trump is supposed to order us to the Capitol at the end of his 
speech, but we will see.''
    President Trump did follow through on his plan, using his 
January 6th speech to tell his supporters to march to the 
Capitol on January 6th. The evidence confirms that this was not 
a spontaneous call to action, but rather was a deliberate 
strategy decided upon in advance by the President.
    Another part of the President's strategy involves certain 
Members of Congress who amplified his unsupported assertions 
that the election had been stolen. In the weeks after the 
election, the White House coordinated closely with President 
Trump's allies in Congress to disseminate his false claims and 
to encourage members of the public to fight the outcome on 
January 6th.
    We know that the President met with various Members to 
discuss January 6th well before the joint session.
    The President's private schedule for December 21, 2020, 
shows a private meeting with Republican Members of Congress. We 
know that Vice President Pence, Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, 
and Rudy Giuliani also attended that meeting. We obtained an 
email that was sent from Congressman Mo Brooks of Alabama to 
Mark Meadows setting up that meeting.
    The subject line is: ``White House meeting December 21st 
regarding January 6th.''
    In his email, Congressman Brooks explained that he had not 
asked anyone to join him in the ``January 6th effort,'' because 
in his view ``only citizens can exert the necessary influence 
on Senators and Congressmen to join this fight against massive 
voter fraud and election theft.''
    At this point, you may also recall testimony given in our 
earlier hearing by Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard 
Donoghue, who said that the President asked the Department of 
Justice to ``Just say that the election was corrupt and leave 
the rest to me and the Republican Congressmen.''
    According to White House visitor logs obtained by the 
Committee, Members of Congress present at the White House on 
December 21st included Congressmen Brian Babin, Andy Biggs, 
Matt Gaetz, Louie Gohmert, Paul Gosar, Andy Harris, Jody Hice, 
Jim Jordan, and Scott Perry. Then-Congresswoman-elect Marjorie 
Taylor Greene was also there.
    We heard testimony in an early hearing that a pardon was 
ultimately requested by Congressman Mo Brooks and other Members 
of Congress who attended this meeting. We have asked witnesses 
what happened during the December 21st meeting, and we have 
learned that part of the discussion centered on the role of the 
Vice President during the counting of the electoral votes.
    These Members of Congress were discussing what would later 
be known as the Eastman theory, which was being pushed by 
attorney John Eastman. In one of our earlier hearings, you 
heard in great detail that President Trump was trying to 
convince Vice President Pence to do something illegal.
    His White House counsel confirmed all of that in testimony 
last week.

    Mr. Heaphy. And tell us your view, Mr. Cipollone, upon those 
discussions with Mr. Philbin, with Greg Jacob, what was your assessment 
as to what the Vice President could or could not do at the joint 
session?
    Mr. Cipollone. What was my assessment----
    Mr. Heaphy. Yes.
    Mr. Cipollone [continuing]. About what he could or couldn't do?
    Mr. Heaphy. Yes, your view of the issue.
    Mr. Cipollone. My view was that the Vice President didn't have the 
legal authority to do anything except what he did.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. They have both told us, Mr. Philbin and Mr. Jacob, that 
they looked very closely at the Eastman memos, the Eastman theory, and 
thought that it had no basis, that it was not a strategy that the 
President should pursue. It sounds like that's consistent with your 
impression as well.
    Mr. Cipollone. My impression would've been informed, certainly, by 
them.

    Mrs. Murphy. Campaign senior advisor Jason Miller told us 
that Mr. Cipollone thought John Eastman's theories were nutty. 
Something Mr. Cipollone wouldn't refute.

    Mr. Heaphy. We've received testimony from various people about 
this. One was Jason Miller, who was on the campaign. He said that, 
``The way it was communicated to me was that Pat Cipollone thought the 
idea was nutty, and at one point, confronted Eastman basically with the 
same sentiment.''
    Mr. Cipollone. I don't have any reason to contradict what he said.

    Mrs. Murphy. On January 4th, John Eastman went to the White 
House to meet with the President and Vice President. Mr. 
Cipollone tried to participate in this meeting, but he was 
apparently turned away.

    Mr. Heaphy. You didn't go to the meeting in the Oval Office where 
Eastman met with the President and Vice President. Do you remember why 
you didn't personally attend?
    Mr. Cipollone. I did walk to that meeting, and I did go into the 
Oval Office with the idea of attending that meeting. And then, I 
ultimately did not attend that meeting.
    Mr. Heaphy. Why not?
    Mr. Cipollone. The reasons for that are privileged.
    Mr. Heaphy. Okay. Were you asked to not attend the meeting, or did 
you make a personal decision not to attend the meeting?
    Mr. Cipollone. Again, without getting into.
    Mr. Purpura. Privilege.

    Mrs. Murphy. Recall that Greg Jacob, the Vice President's 
counsel, stated that Mr. Eastman acknowledged he would lose 9 
to 0 if his legal theory were challenged in the Supreme Court. 
Mr. Cipollone had reviewed Mr. Eastman's legal theory and 
expressed his view repeatedly that the Vice President was 
right. He even offered to take the blame for the Vice 
President's position.

    Mr. Cipollone. I thought that the Vice President did not have the 
authority to do what was being suggested under a proper reading of the 
law. I conveyed that. Okay? I think that I had actually told somebody 
that, you know, in the Vice President's--just blame me, I'm not a 
politician. And, you know, I just said, ``I'm a lawyer. This is my 
legal opinion.''
    But, let me tell you this, can I say a word about the Vice 
President?
    Mr. Heaphy. Please.
    Mr. Cipollone. I think the Vice President did the right thing. I 
think he did the courageous thing. I have a great deal of respect for 
Vice President Pence. I worked with him very closely. I think he 
understood my opinion. I think he understood my opinion afterwards as 
well. I think he did a great service to this country, and I think I 
suggested to somebody that he should be given the Presidential Medal of 
Freedom for his actions.

    Mrs. Murphy. Earlier this year, a Federal district court 
judge concluded that President Trump and Mr. Eastman relying on 
Mr. Eastman's theory more likely than not violated multiple 
Federal criminal laws in their pressure campaign against the 
Vice President.
    Also, recall earlier in this hearing, we saw that Rudy 
Giuliani's team did not have actual evidence of fraud 
sufficient to change the result of the election. That is 
important because, as January 6th approached, the Republican 
Members of the House and Senate were looking for reason to 
object to the electors. No real evidence was ever given to 
them.
    We know that Republican Members of the House received a 
memorandum from the Chairwoman of the House Republican 
Conference in the days before January 6th explaining in detail 
the many constitutional and legal problems with objections and 
describing the principal judicial rulings dismissing the claims 
of wide-spread fraud.
    But their plan to object to the certification of the 
election on January 6th went forward anyway. The next day on 
January 5th, the day before the attack on the Capitol, tens of 
thousands of people converged on Washington. While certain 
close associates of President Trump privately expressed 
concerns about what would occur on January 6th, other members 
of the President's inner circle spoke with great anticipation 
about the events to come.
    The Committee has learned from the White House phone logs 
that the President spoke to Steve Bannon, his close advisor at 
least twice on January 5th.
    The first conversation they had lasted for 11 minutes. 
Listen to what Mr. Bannon said that day, after the first call 
he had with the President.

    Mr. Bannon. All hell is going to break loose tomorrow.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Bannon. It's all converging, and now we're on, as they say, the 
point of attack. Right? The point of attack tomorrow.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Bannon. l'll tell you this, it's not going to happen like you 
think it's going to happen. Okay? It's going to be quite 
extraordinarily different. And all I can say is, strap in . . . 

    Mrs. Murphy. From those same phone logs, we know that the 
President and Mr. Bannon spoke again on the phone that evening 
this time for 6 minutes.
    That same day, on the eve of January 6th, supporters of 
President Trump gathered in Washington, DC, at another rally. 
This rally was held at Freedom Plaza, which is located near the 
White House and featured some of the speakers who Katrina 
Pierson and others deemed too extreme to share the stage with 
the President the next morning.
    As this rally was under way, the President asked members of 
his staff to come to the Oval Office. Let's hear from the White 
House aides who were in the Oval Office that night.

    Mr. Luna. I was in the office--in the Oval Office--and he had asked 
me to open the door so that he could hear, I guess, there was a concert 
or a--or something going on.
    Mr. George. Did he say anything other than just, ``Open the door''?
    Mr. Luna. He--he made a comment, I don't remember specifically what 
he said, but there was a lot of energy.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Matthews. When we walked in the staff was kind-of standing up 
and assembled along the wall, and the President was at the desk. And 
Dan Scavino was on the couch. And the President was dictating a tweet 
that he wanted Scavino to send out. Then, the President started talking 
about the rally the next day.
    He had the door of the Oval open to the Rose Garden because you 
could hear the crowd already assembled outside on the Ellipse. And they 
were playing music. And it was so loud that you could feel it shaking 
in the Oval.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Matthews. He was in a very good mood. And I say that because he 
had not been in a good mood for weeks leading up to that. And then it 
seemed like he was in a fantastic mood that evening.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Deere. He asked if--if Members of Congress would be with him 
tomorrow.
    Mr. Wood. And what did you understand by--meaning voting in his 
favor, as opposed to physically with him or anything like that?
    Mr. Deere. Yeah, I took that to mean not voting to certify the 
election.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Matthews. Then, he did look to the staff and asked for ideas of 
how, if I recall, he said that we could make the RINOs do the right 
thing, is the way he phrased it. And no one spoke up initially because 
I think everyone was trying to process what that--he meant by that.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Craighead. The President was making notes--talking then about: 
``We should go up to the Capitol. What's the best route to go to the 
Capitol?''
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Deere. I said he should focus on policy accomplishments, and I 
didn't mention the 2020 election.
    Mr. Wood. What was his response?
    Mr. Deere. He acknowledged that and said, ``We've had a lot.'' 
Something along those lines. And then, he fairly quickly moved to how 
fired up the crowd is--was going to be.
    Mr. Wood. And what did he say about it?
    Mr. Deere. Just that they were--they were fired up. They were 
angry. They feel like the election's been stolen, that the election was 
rigged.
    Mr. Wood. Did he give you any indication of how he knew that the 
crowd was fired up or angry?
    Mr. Deere. He continued to reference being able to hear them 
outside.

    Mrs. Murphy. Through the open door of the Oval Office, the 
President could hear the sound of the crowd and the music at 
the rally at the Freedom Plaza. These are some of the things 
that they were saying there at the plaza just blocks from where 
the President sat that evening excited for the next day.

    Mr. Stone. This is nothing less than an epic struggle for the 
future of this country between dark and light. Between the godly and 
the godless. Between good and evil. And we will win this fight or 
America will step off into a thousand years of darkness.
    General Flynn. Tomorrow, tomorrow, trust me, the American people 
that are standing on the soil that we are standing on tonight--and 
they're gonna be standing on this soil tomorrow--this is soil that we 
have fought over, fought for, and we will fight for in the future.
    The Members, the Members of Congress, the Members of the House of 
Representatives, the Members of the United States Senate, those of you 
who are feeling weak tonight, those of you that don't have the moral 
fiber in your body, get some tonight because tomorrow, we the people 
are going to be here, and we want you to know that we will not stand 
for a lie. We will not stand for a lie.
    Mr. Alexander. I want them to know that 1776 is always an option. 
These degenerates in the deep state are going to give us what we want, 
or we are going to shut this country down.
    Mr. Jones. It's 1776! 1776! 1776! 1776!
    Crowd. 1776!

    Mrs. Murphy. At 5:05 p.m., as the Freedom Plaza rally was 
under way just blocks away, President Trump tweeted: 
``Washington is being inundated with people who don't want to 
see an election victory stolen by emboldened radical left 
Democrats. Our country has had enough. They won't take it 
anymore.''
    To the crowds gathering in D.C., he added: ``We hear you 
and love you from the Oval Office.''
    The Committee has learned that on January 5th, there were 
serious concerns at Twitter about the anticipated violence the 
next day. Listen to what the Twitter witness told us about 
their desperate efforts to get Twitter to do something.

    Mr. Jackson. What was your gut feeling on the night of January 5th?
    Former Twitter Employee. I believe I sent a Slack message to 
someone that said something along the lines of, ``When people are 
shooting each other tomorrow, I will try and rest in the knowledge that 
we tried.''
    And so, I went to--I don't know that I slept that night to be 
honest with you. I--I was on pins and needles. Because, again, for 
months, I had been begging and anticipating and attempting to raise the 
reality that if nothing--if we made no intervention into what I saw 
occurring, people were going to die.
    And on January 5th, I realized no intervention was coming. And even 
as hard as I had tried to create one or implement one, there was 
nothing. And we were--we were at the whims and mercy of a violent crowd 
that was locked and loaded.
    Mr. Jackson. And just for the record, this was content that was 
echoing Statements from the former President but also Proud Boys and 
other known violent extremist groups?
    Former Twitter Employee. Yes.

    Mrs. Murphy. There were also concerns among Members of 
Congress. We have a recently released recording of a 
conversation that took place among Republican Members in the 
U.S. Capitol on the eve of January 6th. This is Republican 
Congresswoman Debbie Lesko from Arizona, who led some of the 
unfounded objections to the election results.

    Mrs. Lesko. I also asked leadership to come up with a safety plan 
for Members. I'm actually very concerned about this because we have who 
knows how many hundreds of thousands of people coming here. We have 
Antifa. We also have, quite honestly, Trump supporters who actually 
believe that we are going to overturn the election. And when that 
doesn't happen--most likely will not happen, they are going to go nuts.

    Mrs. Murphy. That same evening, as President Trump listened 
to the rally from the Oval Office, he was also working on his 
speech to be delivered the next day. Based on documents we have 
received from the National Archives, including multiple drafts 
of the President's speech, as well as from witness testimony, 
we understand how that speech devolved into a call to action 
and a call to fight.
    One of the first edits President Trump made to his speech 
was to incorporate his 5:05 p.m. tweet, revising his speech to 
say: ``All of us here today do not want to see our election 
victory stolen by emboldened radical left Democrats. Our 
country has had enough. We will not take it anymore.''
    He also added: ``Together, we will Stop the Steal.''
    President Trump's edits continued into the morning of 
January 6th.
    As you can see from the President's daily diary here, the 
President spoke to his chief speechwriter Stephen Miller for 
over 25 minutes that morning. Following his call with Mr. 
Miller, President Trump inserted for the first time a line in 
his speech that said: ``And we will see whether Mike Pence 
enters history as a truly great and courageous leader. All he 
has to do is refer the illegally submitted electoral votes back 
to the States that were given false and fraudulent information 
where they want to recertify.''
    No prior version of this speech had referenced Vice 
President Pence or his role during the joint session on January 
6th. These last-minute edits by President Trump to his speech 
were part of the President's pressure campaign against his own 
Vice President.
    But not everyone wanted these lines regarding the Vice 
President included in the President's speech, including White 
House lawyer Eric Herschmann.

    Mr. George. Did you ever speak to anybody in the White House at the 
time about this disagreement between the President and the Vice 
President, other than the President, based on the objection from your 
counsel?
    Mr. Stephen Miller. Maybe had a brief conversation about it with 
Eric Herschmann.
    Mr. George. Tell me about that. What do you remember him saying to 
you about this disagreement?
    Mr. Stephen Miller. I just remember him saying that--that he had 
a--I'm trying to remember. I don't want to get this wrong. Sort-of 
something to the effect of thinking that it would be counterproductive, 
I think he thought to--to discuss the matter publicly.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. George. So it came up in the context of editing the President's 
speech on January the 6th?
    Mr. Stephen Miller. It just came up in the conversation where Eric 
knew it was in the speech, and so he had a--a sidebar with me about it.

    Mrs. Murphy. So the speechwriters took that advice and 
removed the lines about Vice President Pence. Later that 
morning at 11:20 a.m., President Trump had a phone call with 
the Vice President.
    As the Committee detailed in an earlier hearing, that phone 
call was, by all accounts, tense and heated.
    During this call, the Vice President told the President 
that he would not attempt to change the outcome of the 
election. In response, the President called the Vice President 
of the United States a ``wimp'' and other derogatory words.
    As you can see in this email, after Vice President Pence 
told President Trump that he would not unilaterally deliver him 
a second term in office, the speechwriters were directed to 
reinsert the Mike Pence lines. Here is how one of the 
speechwriters described President Trump's last-minute change to 
the speech.

    Mr. Haley. And as I recall, there was a very tough--a tough 
sentence about the Vice President that was--that was added.

    Mrs. Murphy. President Trump wanted to use his speech to 
attack Vice President Pence in front of a crowd of thousands of 
angry supporters who had been led to believe the election was 
stolen. When President Trump arrived at the Ellipse to deliver 
his speech, he was still worked up from his call with Vice 
President Pence. Although Ivanka Trump would not say so, her 
chief of staff gave the Committee some insight into the 
President's frustration.

    Mr. Heaphy. It's been reported that you ultimately decided to 
attend the rally because you hoped that you would calm the President 
and keep the event on an even keel. Is that accurate?
    Ms. Trump. No. I don't know who said that or where that came from.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Tonolli. What did she share with you about why it was 
concerning that her father was upset or agitated after that call with 
Vice President Pence in relation to the Ellipse rally? Why did that 
matter? Why did he have to be calmed down, I should say.
    Ms. Radford. Well, she shared that he had called the Vice President 
a not--an expletive word. I think that bothered her. And I think she 
could tell, based on the conversations and what was going on in the 
office, that he was angry and upset and people were providing 
misinformation. And she felt like she might be able to help calm the 
situation down, at least before he went onto stage.

    Mrs. Murphy. The President did go on stage, and then he 
gave the speech that he wanted to give. It included the formal 
changes he had requested the night before and in that morning, 
but also many important last-minute, ad-libbed changes.
    A single, scripted reference in the speech to Mike Pence 
became eight. A single, scripted reference to rally-goers 
marching to the Capitol became four, with President Trump ad-
libbing that he would be joining the protesters at the Capitol. 
Added throughout his speech were references to fighting and the 
need for people to have courage and to be strong. The word 
``peacefully'' was in the staff-written script and used only 
once.
    Here are some of these ad-libbed changes that the President 
made to his speech.

    President Trump. Because you'll never take back our country with 
weakness. You have to show strength, and you have to be strong.
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. So, I hope Mike has the courage to do what he has 
to do. And I hope he doesn't listen to the RINOs and the stupid people 
that he's listening to.
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. We fight like hell, and if you don't fight like 
hell, you're not going to have a country anymore.
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. But we're going to try and give our Republicans--
the weak ones, because the strong ones don't need any of our help. 
We're going to try and give them the kind of pride and boldness that 
they need to take back our country. So, let's walk down Pennsylvania 
Avenue.

    Mrs. Murphy. White House counsel Pat Cipollone and his 
deputy did not attend the speech, and they were concerned that 
the statements in the speech about the election were false. In 
fact, the message that President Trump delivered that day was 
built on a foundation of lies. He lied to his supporters that 
the election was stolen. He stoked their anger. He called for 
them to fight for him. He directed them to the U.S. Capitol. He 
told them he would join them, and his supporters believed him, 
and many headed toward the Capitol.
    As a result, people died. People were injured. Many of his 
supporters' lives will never be the same.
    President Trump's former campaign manager Brad Parscale 
recognized the impact of the speech immediately, and this is 
what he said on January 6th in excerpts from text messages to 
Katrina Pierson.
    Mr. Parscale said: ``This is about Trump pushing for 
uncertainty in our country. A sitting President asking for 
civil war.''
    Then when he said, ``This week I feel guilty for helping 
him win,'' Katrina Pierson responded: ``You did what you felt 
right at the time, and, therefore, it was right.''
    Mr. Parscale added: ``Yeah, but a woman is dead.''
    And: ``Yeah. If I was Trump and I knew my rhetoric killed 
someone.''
    When Ms. Pierson replied, ``It wasn't the rhetoric,'' Mr. 
Parscale said: ``Katrina, yes, it was.''
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back. We are 
joined today by Mr. Jason Van Tatenhove and Mr. Stephen Ayres. 
Mr. Tatenhove is an artist and journalist. He is a former 
spokesman of the Oath Keepers and a former close associate of 
Elmer Stewart Rhodes, the founder and president of the Oath 
Keepers, who has been charged with seditious conspiracy in 
relation to the Capitol attack.
    Mr. Van Tatenhove broke with the Oath Keepers and has since 
spoken out forcefully against the violent group.
    Mr. Ayres is a former supporter of President Trump. He 
answered the President's call to come to Washington, DC, on 
January 6th. He marched to the Capitol on the President's 
orders. He pleaded guilty last month to disorderly and 
disruptive conduct at the Capitol.
    Mr. Ayres, who no longer supports President Trump, came 
forward voluntarily to share his story as a warning.
    I will now swear in our witnesses.
    The witnesses will please stand and raise their right 
hands.
    [Witnesses sworn.]
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you. You may be seated.
    Let the record reflect that the witnesses answered in the 
affirmative.
    I recognize myself for questions.
    Today we have discussed how President Trump summoned an 
angry mob of supporters to Washington, DC, many of whom came 
prepared to do battle against police and politicians alike.
    We are fortunate enough to be joined by two witnesses who 
can help us understand who was in the mob that day, both hard-
core violent extremists like the Oath Keepers and Proud Boys 
and average Trump supporters swept up in the fervor of the day.
    Mr. Van Tatenhove, can you help us understand who the Oath 
Keepers are?
    Mr. Van Tatenhove.\1\ I can. Thank you. My time with the 
Oath Keepers began back at Bundy Ranch at that first stand-off 
when I went to cover them as an independent journalist. I then 
subsequently covered two more stand-offs, the Sugar Pine Mine 
stand-off and the White Hope Mine stand-off. It was at that 
time that I was offered a job as national media director and an 
associate editor for the web page.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\ The prepared statement of Mr. Van Tatenhove has been included 
in the Appendix and may be found on page 43.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    So I spent a few years with the Oath Keepers, and I can 
tell you that they may not like to call themselves a militia, 
but they are. They are a violent militia, and they are largely 
Stewart Rhodes. They--I think, rather than try to use words, I 
think the best illustration for what the Oath Keepers are 
happened January 6th when we saw that stacked military 
formation going up the stairs of our Capitol.
    I saw radicalization that started with the beginning of my 
time with them and continued over a period of time as the 
member base and who it was that Stewart Rhodes was courting 
drifted further and further right into the alt-right world, 
into White nationalists, and even straight-up racists.
    It came to a point where I could no longer continue to work 
for them, but the Oath Keepers are a dangerous militia that is 
in large part fed by the ego and drive of Stewart Rhodes, who, 
at times, seemed to see himself as this paramilitary leader. I 
think that drove a lot of it.
    So, in my opinion, the Oath Keepers are a very dangerous 
organization.
    Chairman Thompson. Well, thank you very much. You have 
talked a little bit about that danger. So what is the Oath 
Keepers' vision for America and why should Americans be 
concerned about it?
    Mr. Van Tatenhove. I think we saw a glimpse of what the 
vision of the Oath Keepers is on January 6th. It doesn't 
necessarily include the rule of law. It doesn't necessarily 
include--it includes violence. It includes trying to get their 
way through lies, through deceit, through intimidation, and 
through the perpetration of violence. The swaying of people who 
may not know better through lies and rhetoric and propaganda 
that can get swept up in these moments. I will admit I was 
swept up at one point as well, too.
    But I don't know if that answers the question.
    Chairman Thompson. Well, it does. You talk about being 
swept up. So at what point did you break with the Oath Keepers?
    Mr. Van Tatenhove. There came a point--there were many red 
flags, and I probably should have broke with them much earlier 
than I did, but the straw that broke the camel's back really 
came when I walked into a grocery store. We were living up in 
the very remote town of Eureka, Montana, and there was a group 
of core members of the group--of the Oath Keepers and some 
associates, and they were having a conversation at that public 
area where they were talking about how the Holocaust was not 
real.
    That was, for me, something I just could not abide. You 
know, we were not--we were not wealthy people at all. We were 
barely surviving, and it didn't matter. I went home to my wife 
and my kids, and I told them that I have got to walk away at 
this point. I don't know how we are going to survive or where 
we are going to go or what we are going to do, but I just can 
no longer continue, and I put in my resignation.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you very much.
    Mr. Ayres, there were many people in the crowd that day 
January 6th, including you, who were not part of an extremist 
group. I would like to start by having you tell the American 
people a little bit about yourself.
    Can you tell us about your life before January 6th?
    Mr. Ayres. Yeah. Basically nothing but a family man and a 
working man. Worked at the company, a cabinet company up in 
northeast Ohio for going on 20 years. You know, family is my 
life. You know, I was a supervisor there. So that took up a lot 
of my other--you know, a lot of my free time. Other than that, 
I'm with my family, camping, playing basketball, playing games 
with my son.
    Chairman Thompson. Just what any ordinary, American 
citizen, family man would do.
    Mr. Ayres. Yep, exactly.
    Chairman Thompson. So this Committee has reviewed thousands 
of hours of surveillance footage from January 6th. During this 
review, we identified you entering the Capitol, as we see in 
this video.
    Mr. Ayres, why did you decide to come to Washington on 
January 6th?
    Mr. Ayres. For me personally, you know, I was, you know, 
pretty hard core into the social media, Facebook, Twitter, 
Instagram. I followed, you know, President Trump, you know, on 
all the websites, you know. He basically put out, you know: 
Come to Stop the Steal rally.
    You know, and I felt like I needed to be down here.
    Chairman Thompson. So, you basically learned about the 
rally on social media and at some point made a decision to come 
to Washington?
    Mr. Ayres. Yep, yep. I had some friends I found out were 
coming down. I just hopped--you know, hopped on with them right 
at the tail end when I found out, and came down here with them.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you very much.
    The Chair recognizes the Vice Chair, Ms. Cheney of Wyoming, 
with any questions she may have.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Ayres, when you entered the Capitol last year, did you 
believe that the election had been stolen?
    Mr. Ayres. At that time, yeah. You know, everything that I 
was seeing online, I definitely believed that that is exactly 
what--that was the case.
    Vice Chair Cheney. When you heard from President Trump that 
the election was stolen, how did that make you feel?
    Mr. Ayres. Oh, I was very upset, as were most of his 
supporters. You know, that is basically what got me to come 
down here.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Do you still believe the election was 
stolen?
    Mr. Ayres. Not so much now. I got away from all the social 
media when January 6th happened, basically deleted it all. You 
know, I started doing my own research and everything. For me, 
for me--for something like that to be that--for that to 
actually take place, it is too big, you know. There is no way 
to keep something like that quiet, as big as something like 
that, you know. With all the--you know, all the lawsuits being 
shot down one after another, that was mainly what convinced me.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Well, and I think that is very 
important. We've also talked about today and in previous 
hearings the extent to which the President himself was told 
that the election hadn't been stolen, by his Justice 
Department, by his White House counsel, by his campaign.
    Would it have made a difference to you to know that 
President Trump himself had no evidence of wide-spread fraud?
    Mr. Ayres. Oh, definitely, you know. Who knows, I may not 
have come down here then, you know.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Florida, Mrs. 
Murphy.
    Mrs. Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    You know, earlier today we showed how Donald Trump's 
December 19th tweet summoned both extremist groups as well as 
rank-and-file supporters of President Trump to come to 
Washington, DC, average Americans. He told them to ``Be there, 
Will be wild,'' and they came. We showed how President Trump 
repeatedly told them fight, fight, fight, and they marched to 
the Capitol.
    Mr. Ayres, you were in that crowd at the rally and then the 
crowd that marched to the Capitol. When you arrived on the 
Ellipse that morning, were you planning on going to the 
Capitol?
    Mr. Ayres. No, we didn't actually plan to go down there. 
You know, we went basically to see the Stop the Steal rally, 
and that was it.
    Mrs. Murphy. So why did you decide to march to the Capitol?
    Mr. Ayres. Well, basically, you know, the President, he had 
got everybody riled up, told everybody to head on down. So, we 
basically were just following what he said.
    Mrs. Murphy. After the President's speech, as you were 
marching down to the Capitol, how did you feel?
    Mr. Ayres. You know, I am angry, you know, after everything 
that was basically said in the speech. You know, a lot of the 
stuff he said he already put out in tweets. A lot of it I had 
already seen it and heard it before. So, I mean, I was already 
worked up, and so were most of the people there.
    Mrs. Murphy. So as you started marching, did you think 
there was still a chance the election would be overturned?
    Mr. Ayres. Yeah, at that time I did, because everybody was 
kind-of, like, in the hope that, you know, Vice President Pence 
was not going to certify the election. You know, also, the 
whole time on our way down there, we kept hearing about this 
big reveal I remember us talking about, and we kind-of thought 
maybe that was it. So that hope was there.
    Mrs. Murphy. Did you think that the President would be 
marching with you?
    Mr. Ayres. Yeah. I think everybody thought he was going to 
be coming down. You know, he said in his speech, you know, 
kind-of like he was going to be there with us. So, I mean, I 
believed it.
    Mrs. Murphy. I understand.
    We know that you illegally entered the Capitol that 
afternoon and then left the Capitol area later on. What made 
you decide to leave?
    Mr. Ayres. Basically when President Trump put his tweet 
out, we literally left right after that come out. You know, to 
me, if he would have done that earlier in the day, 1:30, you 
know, we wouldn't be in this--maybe we wouldn't be in this bad 
of a situation or something.
    Mrs. Murphy. Thank you.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Maryland, Mr. Raskin.
    Mr. Raskin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Van Tatenhove, in the run-up to January 6th, Stewart 
Rhodes publicly implored President Trump to invoke the 
Insurrection Act, the 1807 law that allows the President to 
call up militias to put down a rebellion against the United 
States. I want to get your thoughts about this in the context 
of your prior relationship with Stewart Rhodes.
    I understand that you had conversations with Rhodes about 
the Insurrection Act. Why was he so fixated on that and what 
did he think it would enable the Oath Keepers to do?
    Mr. Van Tatenhove. Well, I think it gave him a sense of 
legitimacy, that it was a path forward to move forward with his 
goals and agendas.
    I think we need to quit mincing words and just talk about 
truths. What it was going to be was an armed revolution. I 
mean, people died that day. Law enforcement officers died this 
day. There was a gallows set up in front of the Capitol. This 
could have been the spark that started a new civil war, and no 
one would have won there. That would have been good for no one.
    He was always looking for ways to legitimize what he was 
doing, whether by wrapping it in the trappings of it is not a 
militia, it is community preparedness team. We're not a 
militia, we're an educational outreach group. It is a veterans 
support group. But, again, we've got to stop with this 
dishonesty and the mincing of words and just call things for 
what they are. You know, he is a militia leader. He had these 
grand visions of being a paramilitary leader, and the 
Insurrection Act would have given him a path forward with that. 
You know, the fact that the President was communicating, 
whether directly or indirectly, messaging, you know, kind-of--
that gave him the nod. All I can do is thank the gods that 
things did not go any worse that day.
    Mr. Raskin. What did the Oath Keepers see in President 
Trump?
    Mr. Van Tatenhove. They saw a path forward that would have 
legitimacy. They saw opportunity I think, in my opinion, to 
become a paramilitary force, you know.
    Mr. Raskin. Last week the Department of Justice indicated 
that it has evidence of the Oath Keepers bringing not just 
firearms, but explosives to Washington, ahead of January 6th. 
The Committee has also learned that Stewart Rhodes stopped to 
buy weapons on his way to Washington and shipped roughly $7,000 
worth of tactical gear to a January 6th rally planner in 
Virginia before the attack.
    Did you ever hear Rhodes discuss committing violence 
against elected political leaders?
    Mr. Van Tatenhove. Yeah. I mean, that went back from the 
very beginning of my tenure. One of the first assignments that 
he brought to me wanting me to do as more of a graphic artist 
function was to create a deck of cards. You may remember back 
to the conflict in the Middle East where our own military 
created a deck of cards, which was a who's who of kind-of the 
key players on the other side that they wanted to take out. 
Stewart was very intrigued by that notion and influenced by it, 
I think, and he wanted me to create a deck of cards that would 
include different politicians, judges, including up to Hillary 
Clinton as the queen of hearts.
    This was a project that I refused to do, but from the very 
start, we saw that. There was always the push for military 
training, including there were courses in that community that 
went over explosives training. So, yeah, this all falls in 
line.
    Mr. Raskin. Mr. Van Tatenhove, you say in your very 
thoughtful written testimony that we received today that you 
fear what the next election cycle will bring, and you also say 
that we have been exceedingly lucky in that we have not seen 
more bloodshed so far. I wonder if you would elaborate on those 
two statements.
    Mr. Van Tatenhove. I think as far as the luck goes, we've 
had the potential from Bundy Ranch on, I mean, being boots on 
the ground at these stand-offs--and they were stand-offs--where 
there were firearms pointed across lines at Federal law 
enforcement agencies, you know, whatever it may be with that 
particular stand-off. But I do--I think we have gotten 
exceedingly lucky that more bloodshed did not happen because 
the potential has been there from the start, and we got very 
lucky that the loss of life was--and as tragic as it is, was 
that we saw on January 6th, the potential was so much more.
    Again, all we have to look at is the iconic images of that 
day with the gallows set up for Mike Pence, for the Vice 
President of the United States, you know. I do fear for this 
next election cycle because who knows what that might bring. If 
a President that is willing to try to instill and encourage to 
whip up a civil war amongst his followers using lies and 
deceit, and snake oil, and regardless of the human impact, what 
else is he going to do if he gets elected again? All bets are 
off at that point, and that is a scary notion. I have three 
daughters. I have a granddaughter. I fear for the world that 
they will inherit if we do not start holding these people to 
account.
    Mr. Raskin. Thank you for your testimony, Mr. Van 
Tatenhove.
    Mr. Ayres, I first want to ask you about what finally 
caused you to leave on January the 6th. We know that the 
medieval-style combat with our police, the occupation of the 
building, this was going on for several hours until the 
President issued at 4:17 a tweet, I believe, that included a 
video telling people to go home.
    Did you see that and did that have any effect on what you 
were doing?
    Mr. Ayres. Well, we were there. As soon as that come out, 
everybody started talking about it, and it seemed like it 
started to disperse, you know, some of the crowd. Obviously, 
you know, once we got back to the hotel room, we seen that it 
was still going on, but it definitely dispersed a lot of the 
crowd.
    Mr. Raskin. Did you leave at that point?
    Mr. Ayres. Yeah, we did. Yeah, we left.
    Mr. Raskin. So, in other words, that was the key moment 
when you decided to leave when President Trump told people to 
go home?
    Mr. Ayres. Yeah, yep. We left right when that come out.
    Mr. Raskin. You were not a member of an organized group 
like the Oath Keepers or the Proud Boys as most of the crowd 
wasn't. I wonder, on January 6th, was it your view that these 
far-right groups, like the Oath Keepers and Proud Boys and 
Three Percenters and others were on your side? Did you have any 
reservations about marching with them and rallying with them?
    Mr. Ayres. Well, I definitely didn't have a problem, you 
know. I was probably following them online myself. You know, I 
liked--I thought, you know, hey they're on our team. Good. That 
is how I kind-of looked at it at the time, you know, like, I 
didn't have a problem with it. I thought it was a good thing.
    Mr. Raskin. I am interested in hearing about what has 
happened to you since the events of January 6th. You told the 
Vice Chair that you no longer believe Trump's Big Lie about the 
election, but that is what brought you originally to 
Washington. Looking back on it now, how do you reflect on the 
role that you played in the crowd that day and what is going on 
in your life?
    Mr. Ayres. Basically, you know, I lost my job since this 
all happened, you know, pretty much sold my house. So 
everything that happened with the charges, you know, thank God, 
a lot of them did get dismissed because I was just holding my 
phone, but at the same time I was there. So, I mean, it 
definitely--it changed my life, you know, and not for the good, 
definitely not for, you know, the better. Yeah, I mean, that is 
what I would say.
    Mr. Raskin. Well, President Trump is still promoting the 
Big Lie about the election. How does it make you feel?
    Mr. Ayres. It makes me mad because I was hanging on every 
word he was saying. Everything he was putting out, I was 
following it. I mean, if I was doing it, hundreds of thousands 
or millions of other people are doing it or maybe even still 
doing it. It is like he just said about that, you know, you 
have got people still following and doing that. Who knows, the 
next election could come out, you know, they could end up being 
down the same path we are right now. I mean, you just don't 
know.
    Mr. Raskin. Mr. Ayres, I see that your wife has joined you 
today, and welcome to Washington. We know this has been very 
difficult on you both and your family.
    What lessons finally do you want the American people to 
learn from the way you and your family have suffered as a 
result of these events?
    Mr. Ayres. The biggest thing is, I consider myself a family 
man, and I love my country. I don't think any one man is bigger 
than either one of those. I think that is what needs to be 
taken. You know, people dive into the politics, and for me, I 
felt like I had, you know, like, horse blinders on. I was 
locked in the whole time. The biggest thing for me is take the 
blinders off and make sure you step back and see what's going 
on before it is too late.
    Mr. Raskin. Well, I want to thank you for your testimony 
and for appearing, both of you, today.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back to you.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    I want to thank our witnesses for joining us today.
    The Members of the Select Committee may have additional 
questions for today's witnesses, and we ask that you respond 
expeditiously in writing to those questions.
    Without objection, the Members will be permitted 10 
business days to submit statements for the record, including 
opening remarks and additional questions for the witnesses.
    Without objection, the Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Maryland, Mr. Raskin, for a closing statement.
    Mr. Raskin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    When Donald Trump sent out his tweet, he became the first 
President ever to call for a crowd to descend on the Capital 
City to block the constitutional transfer of power.
    He set off an explosive chain reaction amongst his 
followers. But no one mobilized more quickly than the dangerous 
extremists that we have looked at today. Seizing upon his 
invitation to fight, they assembled their followers for an 
insurrectionary showdown against Congress and the Vice 
President. On January 6th, Trump knew the crowd was angry. He 
knew the crowd was armed. He sent them to the Capitol anyway.
    You might imagine that our Founders would have been shocked 
to learn that an American President would one day come to 
embrace and excuse political violence against our own 
institutions or knowingly send an armed mob to attack the 
Capitol to usurp the will of the people.
    But, you know, Mr. Chairman, the Founders were pretty wise 
about certain things. At the start of the Republic, they 
actually warned everyone about Donald Trump, not by name, of 
course, but in the course of advising about the certain 
prospect that ambitious politicians would try to mobilize 
violent mobs to tear down our own institutions in service of 
their insatiable ambitions.
    In the very first Federalist Paper, Alexander Hamilton 
observed that history teaches that opportunistic politicians 
who desire to rule at all costs will begin first as demagogues 
pandering to the angry and malignant passions of the crowd but 
then end up as tyrants trampling the freedoms and the rights of 
the people.
    A violent insurrection to overturn an election is not an 
abstract thing as we've heard. Hundreds of people were 
bloodied, injured, and wounded in the process, including more 
than 150 police officers, some of them sitting in this room 
today.
    I want to give you an update on one officer who was badly 
wounded in the attack and is well-known to the Members of this 
Committee because he testified before us last year.
    Sergeant Aquilino Gonell is an Army veteran who spent a 
year on active combat duty in the Iraq War, and then 16 years 
on the Capitol force. Nothing he ever saw in combat in Iraq, he 
has said, prepared him for the insurrection where he was 
savagely beaten, punched, pushed, kicked, shoved, stomped, and 
sprayed with chemical irritants, along with other officers, by 
members of a mob carrying hammers, knives, batons, and police 
shields taken by force and wielding the American flag against 
police officers as a dangerous weapon.
    Last month, on June 28th, Sergeant Gonell's team of doctors 
told him that permanent injuries he has suffered to his left 
shoulder and right foot now make it impossible for him to 
continue as a police officer. He must leave policing for good 
and figure out the rest of his life.
    Sergeant Gonell, we wish you and your family all the best. 
We are here for you. We salute you for your valor, your 
eloquence, and your beautiful commitment to America.
    I wonder what former President Trump would say to someone 
like Sergeant Gonell who must now go about remaking his life. I 
wonder if he could even understand what motivates a patriot 
like Sergeant Gonell.
    In his inaugural address Trump introduced one commanding 
image, ``American carnage.'' Although that turn of phrase 
explained little about our country before he took office, it 
turned out to be an excellent prophecy of what his rage would 
come to visit on our people.
    Mr. Ayres just described how the trust he placed in 
President Trump as a camp follower derailed his life and nearly 
wrecked his reputation and his family.
    A few weeks ago, we heard Shaye Moss and her mother, Ruby 
Freeman, Speaker Rusty Bowers from Arizona, and Georgia's 
secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, describe how hate-
filled intimidation campaigns by Trump and his followers made 
them prisoners in their homes and drove their stress and 
anxiety to soaring new heights when they refused to do Trump's 
bidding.
    American carnage, that is Donald Trump's true legacy. His 
desire to overthrow the people's election and seize the 
Presidency--interrupt the counting of electoral college votes 
for the first time in American history--nearly toppled the 
constitutional order, and brutalized hundreds and hundreds of 
people. The Watergate break-in was like a Cub Scout meeting 
compared to this assault on our people and our institutions.
    Mr. Chairman, these hearings have been significant for us 
and for millions of Americans, and our hearing next week will 
be a profound moment of reckoning for America. But the crucial 
thing is the next step: What this Committee, what all of us 
will do to fortify our democracy against coups, political 
violence, and campaigns to steal elections away from the 
people.
    Unlike Mr. Ayres and Mr. Van Tatenhove, people who have 
recovered and evolved from their descent into the hell of 
fanaticism, Donald Trump has only expanded his Big Lie to cover 
January 6th itself. He asserts the insurrection was the real 
election and the election was the real insurrection. He says 
his mob greeted our police officers on January 6th with hugs 
and kisses.
    He threatens to take one of America's two major political 
parties with him down the road to authoritarianism, and it is 
Abraham Lincoln's party, no less.
    The political scientists tell us that authoritarian parties 
have two essential features in common in history and around the 
world: They do not accept the results of democratic elections 
when they lose, and they embrace political violence as 
legitimate. The problem of incitement to political violence has 
only grown more serious in the internet age as we have just 
heard.
    But this is not the problem of one party. It is the problem 
of the whole country now. American democracy, Mr. Chairman, is 
a precious inheritance, something rare in the history of the 
world and even on earth today. Constitutional democracy is the 
silver frame, as Lincoln put it, upon which the golden apple of 
freedom rests. We need to defend both our democracy and our 
freedom with everything we have and declare that this American 
carnage ends here and now. In a world of resurgent 
authoritarianism and racism and antisemitism, let's all hang 
tough for American democracy.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    Without objection, the Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from Florida, Mrs. Murphy, for a closing statement.
    Mrs. Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    At one of our first hearings, Chairman Thompson explained 
that the Members of this Committee would not spend much time 
talking about ourselves. Rather, we would let the evidence play 
the leading role. The Chairman was right because this isn't 
about promoting ourselves as individuals. It is about 
protecting the country we love. It is about preserving what 
actually makes America great, the rule of law, free and fair 
elections, and the peaceful transfer of power from one elected 
leader to the next.
    But if I may say a word about myself, and why I am proud to 
serve on this Committee, I am the only Member of this Committee 
who is not blessed to be born an American. I was born in 
Vietnam after the Vietnam War, and my family and I fled a 
communist government, and were rescued by the U.S. Navy, and 
were given sanctuary in America. My patriotism is rooted in my 
gratitude for America's grace and generosity. I love this 
country.
    On January 6th, four decades after my family fled a place 
where political power was seized through violence, I was in the 
United States Capitol, fleeing my fellow Americans.
    Members of the angry mob had been lied to by a President 
and the other powerful people who tried to convince them 
without evidence that the election had been stolen from them. 
Some of them then tried to use physical violence to overturn 
the outcome of a free and fair election.
    Our Committee's overriding objective is to fight fiction 
with facts, to create a full account for the American people 
and for the historical record, to tell the truth of what 
happened and why it happened, to make recommendations so it 
never happens again, to defend our democracy. To me, there is 
nothing more patriotic than that.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    Without objection, the Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for a closing statement.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Chairman, let me put what you have seen today in a 
broader context. At the very outset of our hearings, we 
described several elements of President Trump's multi-part plan 
to overturn the 2020 election. Our hearings have now covered 
all but one of those elements: An organized campaign to 
persuade millions of Americans of a falsehood that the 2020 
election was stolen by wide-spread fraud; a corrupt effort to 
pressure Vice President Pence to refuse to count electoral 
votes; an effort to corrupt the U.S. Department of Justice; 
efforts to pressure State election officials and legislators to 
change State election results; a scheme to create and submit 
fake electoral slates for multiple States.
    Today, you saw how President Trump summoned a mob to 
Washington for January 6th, and then knowing that that mob was 
armed, directed that mob to the United States Capitol.
    Every one of these elements of the planning for January 6th 
is an independently serious matter. They were all ultimately 
focused on overturning the election, and they all have one 
other thing in common: Donald Trump participated in each 
substantially and personally. He oversaw or directed the 
activity of those involved.
    Next week, we will return to January 6th itself. As we have 
shown in prior hearings, Donald Trump and his legal team, led 
by Rudy Giuliani, were working on January 6th to delay or halt 
Congress's counting of electoral votes. The mob attacking and 
invading the Capitol on that afternoon of January 6th was 
achieving that result. For multiple hours, Donald Trump refused 
to intervene to stop it. He would not instruct the mob to leave 
or condemn the violence. He would not order them to evacuate 
the Capitol and disperse.
    The many pleas for help from Congress did no good. His 
staff insisted that President Trump call off the attack. He 
would not.
    Here are a few of the many things you will hear next week 
from Mr. Cipollone.

    Mr. Heaphy. My question's exactly that. It sounds like you, from 
the very onset of violence at the Capitol right around 2 o'clock, were 
pushing for a strong statement that people should leave the Capitol. Is 
that right?
    Mr. Cipollone. I was and others were as well.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. Was it necessary for you to continue to push for a 
statement directing people to leave all the way through that period of 
time until it was ultimately issued after 4----
    Mr. Cipollone. I felt it was my obligation to continue to push for 
that, and others felt that it was their obligation as well.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. Would it have been possible at any moment for the 
President to walk down to the podium in the briefing room and talk to 
the Nation at any time between when you first gave him that advice at 2 
o'clock and 4:17 when the video statement went out? Would that have 
been possible?
    Mr. Cipollone. Would that have been possible?
    Mr. Heaphy. Yes.
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes, it would have been possible.

    Vice Chair Cheney. You will hear that Donald Trump never 
picked up the phone that day to order his administration to 
help. This is not ambiguous. He did not call the military. His 
Secretary of Defense received no order. He did not call his 
Attorney General. He did not talk to the Department of Homeland 
Security. Mike Pence did all of those things; Donald Trump did 
not.
    We will walk through the events of January 6th next week 
minute by minute.
    One more item. After our last hearing, President Trump 
tried to call a witness in our investigation, a witness you 
have not yet seen in these hearings. That person declined to 
answer or respond to President Trump's call, and instead 
alerted their lawyer to the call. Their lawyer alerted us, and 
this Committee has supplied that information to the Department 
of Justice.
    Let me say one more time, we will take any efforts to 
influence witness testimony very seriously.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you. The gentlewoman yields back.
    In my opening, I mentioned how we look to our leaders to 
serve as a fail-safe if people in this country refuse to accept 
the results of an election. That is part of the way those in 
positions of public trust uphold their oath, how they show 
fidelity to the Constitution.
    In the run-up to January 6th, Donald Trump had an 
obligation to tell his supporters to accept the results of the 
election. Instead, he urged them further along the path toward 
mob violence.
    The idea of mob violence makes me think of another sort of 
fail-safe. All across this country, there are different ideas 
about what role the Federal Government should play in our 
lives. In fact, up here on this dais, there are plenty of 
different ideas. But there are moments when the institutions of 
our Federal Government are the fail-safe.
    I am from a part of the country where had it not been for 
the Federal Government and the Constitution, my parents and 
many more Americans like them would have continued to be 
treated as second-class citizens. The freedom to be able to 
vote without harassment, travel in relative safety, and dine 
and sleep where you choose is because we have a Government that 
looks over the well-being of its citizens.
    This is especially important in moments of crisis. When we 
have a natural disaster that State governments can't handle on 
their own, when there is an emergency that requires action by 
our public health services or our military, we have the Federal 
Government.
    What happened on January 6, 2021, was another one of those 
moments in history that tests the strength of our Federal 
Government. January 6th was an attack on our country. It was an 
attack on our democracy, on our Constitution. A sitting 
President with a violent mob trying to stop the peaceful 
transfer of power from one President to another, it still makes 
my blood boil to think of it.
    In a moment like that, what would you expect to see? You 
expect to see the President of the United States sitting behind 
the Resolute desk in the Oval Office assuring the American 
people that the attack would be repelled and the threat would 
be dealt with. You would expect to be reassured that there was 
a fail-safe.
    Instead, the President of the United States sent the mob. 
He disregarded the advice of the people who had taken an oath 
to the Constitution. He oversaw a scheme aided by people whose 
loyalty was only to Donald Trump.
    There is nothing we could compare that to. There is nothing 
in our great Nation's history that has ever come close to that 
sort of betrayal and dereliction. Thank goodness our system of 
government held in spite of a Commander-in-Chief who worked in 
opposition to what the Constitution designed.
    When this Committee reconvenes, we will tell the story of 
that supreme dereliction by the Commander-in-Chief, how close 
we came to a catastrophe for our democracy, and how we remain 
in serious danger.
    The Chair requests those in the hearing room remain seated 
until the Capitol Police have escorted witnesses and Members 
from the room.
    Without objection, the Committee stands adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 3:57 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.]



                            A P P E N D I X

                              ----------                              


   Prepared Statement of Jason Van Tatenhove, Former National Media 
                     Director for the Oath Keepers
                             July 12, 2022
    My name is Jason Van Tatenhove, and I am a journalist and author 
living in Colorado. I am here giving testimony to the Select Committee 
to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
because, for a short period, I had access to an inside view of both the 
inner workings of the Oath Keepers and its founder and president, 
Stewart Rhodes. From the beginning, I knew this would be a story that 
the world would someday need to hear. I am deeply saddened by how 
correct this intuition was.
    I come from a family of artists and writers and have always worked 
in some way as an artist and journalist. I am local to Colorado, where 
I have written for several outlets in Northern Colorado. It is 
important for me to be here today in front of the Select Committee 
because all Americans need to pay attention to the genuine danger that 
extremist groups like the Oath Keepers pose to us and our society. 
Because of the actions taken on January 6th and the increased political 
and ideological polarization in our society, I fear what the next 
election cycle will bring. We need to re-learn how to communicate with 
one another without guns, body armor, or standoffs. I am trying to make 
amends for what I did during my time with the Oath Keepers because I am 
remorseful for helping them push their dangerous propaganda. In light 
of the Select Committee's work and the truth they have uncovered, I am 
optimistic that this experience and my voice can help to shed light on 
these issues and to embolden others to walk away from extremist groups 
like the Oath Keepers.
    I want to note at the outset that my first-hand knowledge of the 
Oath Keepers stopped when I resigned, as I will describe. But given my 
insider access and close proximity to Stewart Rhodes--including during 
several months when he lived in my basement--I can help to paint a 
picture of the Oath Keepers, how they worked, how they operated, and 
how dangerous they are. I do not know about the planning or execution 
of events surrounding what happened at the Capitol on January 6th, 
2021. Still, from my experience with the ever-radicalizing 
organization, I know the troubling signs were there years before.
    My journey with the Oath Keepers began during the 2014 Bundy Ranch 
Standoff. I was embedded with Stewart Rhodes in his vehicle as he made 
his second trip down to the standoff in the desert of Nevada. I was 
given unprecedented access to Stewart Rhodes and the Oath Keepers, 
including the organization's inner workings. This access continued as I 
covered the subsequent two standoffs: the Sugar Pine Mine standoff and 
the White Hope Mine standoff.
    This culminated in a job offer with the Oath Keepers after my name 
was included in a press release by the group, which led to my 
resignation from working for the State of Montana. I was offered a job 
as the National Media Director and Webpage Associate Editor for the 
organization. I worked closely with Stewart Rhodes for the next year 
and a half and often traveled with him to various events throughout the 
United States.
    During this period, I saw Stewart Rhodes courting members of the 
alt-right. Having issues with this radicalization, I knew I had to make 
a break with the group, even if it would be financially devastating to 
my family. There came the point when I walked in on a conversation in a 
local grocery store where long-standing, influential Oath Keeper 
members and associates were discussing their thoughts openly, denying 
that the Holocaust had ever actually happened. At that moment, I 
decided that no matter what, I would need to break ties with this ever-
radicalizing group. I am not a racist, I am not an anti-Semite, I am 
not a white supremacist, I am not violent, and I could no longer be 
associated with the Oath Keepers, whatever the consequences might have 
been.
    I now view it as my obligation to sound the alarm and raise public 
awareness about the Oath Keepers and to get my perspective on this 
paramilitary group into the public conversation. While this may come as 
a surprise to some, many of the true motivations of this group revolve 
around raising funds, and not the propaganda they push. Stewart Rhodes 
and the Oath Keepers insert themselves into crises, situations that 
they would not usually have any part of, and seek to make themselves 
relevant and fundraise on the back of these conflicts to increase the 
membership rolls.
    Recruitment is a crucial focus for the Oath Keepers, and a target 
demographic is people that feel marginalized. I have seen these 
individuals whipped up into dangerous action by the group's leadership, 
just as we saw on January 6th.
    This, combined with catering to the conspiracy theories of the day 
and an attempt to connect with ever-radicalizing communities within the 
alt-right, white nationalists, and even outright racists to gain more 
influence and money, is a dangerous proposition for our country. We 
cannot allow these groups to continue threatening our democracy. We 
must focus on understanding this reality and, most importantly, 
combating them.
    There have been times when I have personally discounted the reach 
of this group and its violent messaging. This was a mistake. Because in 
the end, they were able to muster a group of heavily armed and 
outfitted members who had been trained in modern warfare techniques, 
including those we now know had explosives, to storm the Capitol to 
stop the process of inaugurating the duly elected president.
    We have been exceedingly lucky in that we have not seen much more 
bloodshed. But luck is not a good strategy for a country looking for 
better ways to move forward.
    It is time to speak the truth about these groups and the violent 
influence they wield. It is time to show an exit ramp to others like me 
who may have been caught up in the rhetoric of these groups and used as 
pawns in a dishonest campaign to capture more money, influence, and 
power. I have been frightened by what I saw when I was associated with 
the Oath Keepers and even more so by what I saw on January 6th. I am 
honored to provide my perspective to the Select Committee and the 
American people.

                                 
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 9 (Thursday, January 13, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S195-S197]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             VOTING RIGHTS

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, on defending democracy--something 
Leader Reid would have been passionate about, if he were still with us 
here, and he is telling us that now--over the next few days, the U.S. 
Senate will face a critical and unavoidable question: Are its Members 
going to act to protect our democracy and protect voting rights or will 
its Members choose the path of obstruction, inaction, and side with the 
Big Lie overtaking our precious experiment in self-rule?
  We had two professors come to us 2 days ago, the authors of ``How 
Democracies Die,'' and one of the main ways that democracies die is 
when one political party refuses to accept the results of an election 
that was run freely and fairly. That is what is happening here. They 
showed how important this is and how there is unfortunate historical 
precedent in doing what we did.
  And earlier this week, President Biden made that clear. He made clear 
to the Nation--and to all of us who serve in the Senate--that the time 
to answer the question about whether allowing the Big Lie, so ruinous 
to a democracy, to overtake our precious experiment in self-rule will 
prevail.
  As the Senate has done many times in its history, it must soon act 
again to safeguard democracy from the dangers of the present day: the 
power of dark money, voter suppression, and efforts to subvert the 
democratic process from the bottom up.
  I commend President Biden for offering a strong speech, and I look 
forward to having him join Senate Democrats later today at our caucus 
meeting to discuss the path forward.
  Yesterday, I shared with my Democratic colleagues our plan for what 
the next few days are going to look like in this Chamber and how I, as 
majority leader, will move to finally begin, at last, a floor debate on 
the voting rights legislation.
  Later today, the House of Representatives will pass a message that 
will include the language of the two bills Republicans have 
filibustered for months--the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis 
Voting Rights Advancement Act.
  As permitted under the existing rules, we will have the ability to 
proceed to the legislation and debate it on a simple majority basis--
something that has been denied to us four times in the last several 
months because Republicans didn't want to move forward. Then the Senate 
will finally hold a debate on the voting rights legislation for the 
first time in this Congress, and every Senator will be faced with a 
choice of whether or not to pass this legislation to protect our 
democracy.
  There has been a lot of gas-lighting here on the floor lately from 
the other side about power grabs, about takeovers, but precious little 
in terms of substance. I have not heard them mention what Republican 
legislatures are

[[Page S196]]

doing. That is not the thrust of their speech. They say: Oh, it is a 
power grab. Oh, it is a takeover.
  Well, my friends, if there was ever a power grab, it is what is 
happening in the State legislatures right now, where Republican 
legislators are taking away people's sacred right to vote and aiming it 
particularly at certain groups--people of color, young people, people 
in urban areas, older people, disabled people.
  So let me remind my colleagues what these bills actually do. The 
Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act 
are balanced, effective, and commonsense bills that build on the work 
that this Chamber has done in the past to protect democracy, and it was 
often done with bipartisan votes. The transformation of the Republican 
Party in the era of Donald Trump is apparent and nasty, and, most 
importantly, really dangerous to our democracy.
  These laws set basic standards for all American citizens to vote 
safely and vote securely, while protecting elections from attempts at 
subversion. What is wrong with that? How is that a power grab, to 
allow people to vote? It is the people who should have the power, not 
politicians and State legislative bodies to take it away.

  The bill also fights against the power of Big Money that has cascaded 
into our system, and so much of it is now being used to try and 
intimidate legislators, Senators, and Congressmen from preserving this 
right to vote.
  And the bill ends partisan gerrymandering. We have all seen 
situations--the legislature of Wisconsin, the State Assembly, where 53 
percent of the people voted for Democratic legislators in 2020, but 
only about a third of the seats are Democratic due the severe nature of 
this gerrymandering.
  And, so importantly, these bills restore the critical preclearance 
provisions that were once part of the Voting Rights Act that many of my 
Republican colleagues supported in the past, which a conservative 
majority on the Supreme Court shamefully gutted roughly a decade ago.
  Democrats have tried for months--months--to convince our Republican 
colleagues to join us on a bipartisan basis to begin debate on these 
bills, to no avail. We presented these reasonable, commonsense 
proposals, as I said, many of which had been voted on by Republicans in 
the past. We presented them on the floor in June, August, October, and 
November. Each time I promised my Republican colleagues they would have 
the opportunity to voice their concerns and offer germane amendments. I 
wouldn't limit the germane amendments that they wished to offer.
  We have lobbied Republicans privately and tried to engage them in 
both the Senate Rules Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
Every step of the way--every step of the way--we have been met with 
near total resistance. To date, none of our efforts have produced any 
meaningful engagement from the other side of the aisle.
  But Members of this Chamber were elected to debate and to vote, 
particularly on an issue as vital to the beating heart of our democracy 
as this.
  I have said for months that just because Republicans have refused to 
work with us to protect voting rights does not mean Democrats would 
stop working to move forward on our own. The matter is simply too 
important. It is the wellspring of our democracy, the right by which 
all other rights are secured--voting.
  I am reading the biography of Grant, by Chernow. The No. 1 thing the 
southern segregationists, who happened to be Democrats at the time, 
wanted to take away from the newly freed slaves was the right to vote. 
They knew that, if Black people didn't have the right to vote in the 
South, they would have no power--no power over our laws, no power of 
where resources go, no power to decide the directions of the country. 
And that was the No. 1 thing they wanted to prevent.
  So it is so vital to keep people's right to vote, particularly when 
some of the laws--too many--are aimed at the people of color, reminding 
us that racism is the poison of America still.
  So we will move forward. The path I have laid out sets up a process 
by which Senators can finally make clear to the American people where 
they stand on protecting our democracy. Republicans will have a chance 
to show where they stand on preserving the right of every eligible 
citizen to cast a ballot.
  Republicans will have a chance to make clear where they stand on 
fighting efforts to empower partisan actors to subvert the election 
process and create more Big Lies in the future. Republicans will have a 
chance to make clear where they stand on fighting the power of dark 
money, which so many Americans oppose--Democrats and Republicans. And 
Republicans will have a chance to show where they stand on ending 
partisan gerrymandering.
  Of course, to ultimately end debate and pass anything, we will also 
need 10 Republicans to join us, ultimately, on cloture. If they don't, 
we will be left with no choice but to consider changes to Senate rules 
so we can move forward. And changing Senate rules has been done many 
times before in this Chamber. This is not the first, second, or third 
time that this is happening.
  All of us must make a choice about whether or not we will do our part 
to preserve our democratic Republic this day and age. We cannot be 
satisfied in thinking that democracy will win out in the end if we are 
not willing to put in the work, strength, and courage to defend it.
  Last night, I read the op-ed published by President Obama that 
eloquently laid out what really is at stake here. I encourage my 
colleagues to read it if they haven't already. He reminded us that 
democracy is not a given. It is not self-executing. But it can indeed 
survive and thrive if we are prepared to follow in the footsteps of the 
great Americans who did their part to defend democracy before us, many 
of them giving their lives. We are now being called upon to do our 
part.
  Madam President, I now ask unanimous consent to have printed in the 
Record the Obama op-ed, which I will bring to the desk shortly.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                            [Jan. 12, 2022]

  Former President Obama In USA Today: We Need To Follow John Lewis' 
                  Example and Fight for Our Democracy

                   [By Former President Barack Obama]

       ``The world, and future generations, will be watching,'' 
     Obama writes as he calls on Senate to ``do the right thing'' 
     and pass legislation to protect voting rights.
       When I spoke at John Lewis' memorial service two years ago, 
     I emphasized a truth John knew better than just about anyone. 
     Our democracy isn't a given. It isn't self-executing. We, as 
     citizens, have to nurture and tend it. We have to work at it. 
     And in that task, we have to vigilantly preserve and protect 
     our most basic tool of self-government, which is the right to 
     vote.
       At the time, various state legislators across the country 
     had already passed a variety of laws designed to make voting 
     harder. It was an attack on everything John Lewis fought for, 
     and a challenge to our most fundamental democratic freedoms.
       Since then, things have only gotten worse.


             slow unraveling of basic democratic principles

       While the American people turned out to vote at the highest 
     rate in a century in the last presidential election, members 
     of one of our two major political parties--spurred on by the 
     then-sitting president--denied the results of that election 
     and spun conspiracy theories that drove a violent mob to 
     attack our Capitol.


                protesters attack the capitol on jan. 6

       Although initially rejected by many Republicans, those 
     claims continued to be amplified by conservative media 
     outlets, and have since been embraced by a sizable portion of 
     Republican voters--not to mention GOP elected officials who 
     do, or at least should, know better. Those Republican 
     officials and conservative thought leaders who have 
     courageously stood their ground and rejected such anti-
     democratic efforts have found themselves ostracized, 
     threatened and subjected to primary challenges.
       Meanwhile, state legislators in 49 states have introduced 
     more than 400 bills designed to suppress votes. Some of these 
     bills we've seen before: legislation that would discourage 
     voters, including racial minorities, low-income voters and 
     young people from casting a ballot. Others aim to treat 
     certain polling locations differently, creating one set of 
     rules for voters living in cities and another set for people 
     living in more conservative, rural areas.
       We're also seeing more aggressive attempts to gerrymander 
     congressional districts. Gerrymandering, which essentially 
     allows politicians to choose their voters instead of the 
     other way around, isn't new--and both parties have engaged in 
     it.
       But what we're seeing now are far more aggressive and 
     precise efforts on the part of Republican state legislatures 
     to tilt the playing

[[Page S197]]

     field in their favor. In states that have approved new 
     congressional maps, there are now 15 fewer competitive 
     districts than there were before. Fewer competitive districts 
     increases partisanship, since candidates who only have to 
     appeal to primary voters have no incentive to compromise or 
     move to the center.
       Finally and perhaps most perniciously, we've seen state 
     legislatures try to assert power over core election processes 
     including the ability to certify election results. These 
     partisan attempts at voter nullification are unlike anything 
     we've seen in modern times, and they represent a profound 
     threat to the basic democratic principle that all votes 
     should be counted fairly and objectively.
       The good news is that the majority of American voters are 
     resistant to this slow unraveling of basic democratic 
     institutions and electoral mechanisms. But their elected 
     representatives have a sacred obligation to push back as 
     well--and now is the time to do it.
       Now, there are bills in front of the Senate that would 
     protect the right to vote, end partisan gerrymandering, and 
     restore crucial parts of the Voting Rights Act. Bill sponsors 
     have diligently reached out to their Republican colleagues to 
     obtain their support. Sadly, almost every Senate Republican 
     who expressed concern about threats to our democracy in the 
     immediate aftermath of the Jan. 6 insurrection has since been 
     cowed into silence or reversed their positions. When one of 
     the bills in front of the Senate today was introduced in 
     November, every Democrat supported it. And every Republican 
     but one voted against moving it forward.
       Protecting our democracy wasn't always a partisan issue. 
     The Voting Rights Act was the result of Democratic and 
     Republican efforts, and both President Reagan and President 
     George W. Bush signed its renewal when they were in office. 
     But even if Senate Republicans now refuse to stand up for our 
     democracy, Democrats should be able to get the job done with 
     a simple majority vote. There are already 50 Senators who 
     support bills to safeguard elections. The only thing standing 
     in the way is the filibuster--a Senate procedure that allows 
     a minority of just 41 Senators to prevent legislation from 
     being brought up for a vote.
       The filibuster has no basis in the Constitution. 
     Historically, the parliamentary tactic was used sparingly--
     most notably by Southern senators to block civil rights 
     legislation and prop up Jim Crow. In recent years, the 
     filibuster became a routine way for the Senate minority to 
     block important progress on issues supported by the majority 
     of voters. But we can't allow it to be used to block efforts 
     to protect our democracy. That's why I fully support 
     President Joe Biden's call to modify Senate rules as 
     necessary to make sure pending voting rights legislation gets 
     called for a vote. And every American who cares about the 
     survival of our most cherished institutions should support 
     the president's call as well.


                 protecting our democratic institutions

       For generations, Americans of every political stripe have 
     taken pride in our status as the world's oldest continuous 
     democracy. We have spilled precious blood and spent countless 
     treasure in defense of democracy and freedom abroad. But as 
     we learned during the Jim Crow era, our role as democracy's 
     defender isn't credible when we violate the rights and 
     freedoms of our own citizens. And at a time when democracy is 
     under attack on every continent, we can't hope to set an 
     example for the world when one of our two major parties seems 
     intent on chipping away at the foundation of our own 
     democracy.
       No single piece of legislation can guarantee that we'll 
     make progress on every challenge we face as a nation. But 
     legislation that ensures the right to vote and makes sure 
     every vote is properly counted will give us a better chance 
     of meeting those challenges. It's how we can overcome the 
     gridlock and cynicism that's so prevalent right now. It's how 
     we can stop climate change, and reform our broken immigration 
     system, and help ensure that our children enjoy an economy 
     that works for everyone and not just the few.
       Now is the time for all of us to follow John Lewis' 
     example. Now is the time for the U.S. Senate to do the right 
     thing. America's long-standing grand experiment in democracy 
     is being sorely tested. Future generations are counting on us 
     to meet that test.

  Mr. SCHUMER. Finally, as we continue this important conversation 
about the future of our democracy, I ask my Democratic colleagues to 
consider the following: If the right to vote is the cornerstone of our 
democracy, then how can we in good conscience allow for a situation in 
which the Republican Party can debate and pass voter suppression laws 
at the State level with only a simple majority vote but not allow the 
United States to do the same?
  Let me repeat that.
  If the right to vote is the cornerstone of our democracy, then how 
can we in good conscience allow for a situation in which the Republican 
Party can debate and pass voter suppression laws at the State level 
with only a simple majority vote but not allow the U.S. Senate to do 
the same?
  In the coming days, we will confront this sobering question.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________


[House Hearing, 117 Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

=======================================================================


                                HEARING

                               BEFORE THE

                          SELECT COMMITTEE TO
                      INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH
                             ATTACK ON THE
                         UNITED STATES CAPITOL

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               __________

                             JUNE 21, 2022

                               __________

                            Serial No. 117-5

                               __________

Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
                6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                                     

[GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
                                     

        Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov

                               __________
                               

                    U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE                    
49-352 PDF                     WASHINGTON : 2022                     
          
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                  
                            
 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE UNITED 
                             STATES CAPITOL

               Bennie G. Thompson, Mississippi, Chairman
                    Liz Cheney, Wyoming, Vice Chair
                        Zoe Lofgren, California
                       Adam B. Schiff, California
                        Pete Aguilar, California
                      Stephanie N. Murphy, Florida
                         Jamie Raskin, Maryland
                       Elaine G. Luria, Virginia
                        Adam Kinzinger, Illinois
                           
                           COMMITTEE STAFF

                    David B. Buckley, Staff Director
      Kristin L. Amerling, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
             Timothy J. Heaphy, Chief Investigative Counsel
                  Hope Goins, Counsel to the Chairman
                      Jamie Fleet, Senior Advisor
          Joseph B. Maher, Senior Counselor to the Vice Chair
               Timothy R. Mulvey, Communications Director
           Candyce Phoenix, Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor

Katherine B. Abrams, Staff           Thomas E. Joscelyn, Senior 
    Associate                            Professional Staff Member
Temidayo Aganga-Williams, Senior     Rebecca L. Knooihuizen, Financial 
    Investigative Counsel                Investigator
Alejandra Apecechea, Investigative   Casey E. Lucier, Investigative 
    Counsel                              Counsel
Lisa A. Bianco, Director of Member   Damon M. Marx, Professional Staff 
    Services and Security Manager        Member
Jerome P. Bjelopera, Investigator    Evan B. Mauldin, Chief Clerk
Bryan Bonner, Investigative Counsel  Yonatan L. Moskowitz, Senior 
Richard R. Bruno, Senior                 Counsel
    Administrative Assistant         Hannah G. Muldavin, Deputy 
Marcus Childress, Investigative          Communications Director
    Counsel                          Jonathan D. Murray, Professional 
John Marcus Clark, Security              Staff Member
    Director                         Jacob A. Nelson, Professional 
Jacqueline N. Colvett, Digital           Staff Member
    Director                         Elizabeth Obrand, Staff Associate
Heather I. Connelly, Professional    Raymond O'Mara, Director of 
    Staff Member                         External Affairs
Meghan E. Conroy, Investigator       Elyes Ouechtati, Technology 
Heather L. Crowell, Printer              Partner
    Proofreader                      Robin M. Peguero, Investigative 
William C. Danvers, Senior               Counsel
    Researcher                       Sandeep A. Prasanna, Investigative 
Soumyalatha O. Dayananda, Senior         Counsel
    Investigative Counsel            Barry Pump, Parliamentarian
Stephen W. DeVine, Senior Counsel    Sean M. Quinn, Investigative 
Lawrence J. Eagleburger,                 Counsel
    Professional Staff Member        Brittany M. J. Record, Senior 
Kevin S. Elliker, Investigative          Counsel
    Counsel                          Joshua D. Roselman, Investigative 
Margaret E. Emamzadeh, Staff             Counsel
    Associate                        James N. Sasso, Investigative 
Sadallah A. Farah, Professional          Counsel
    Staff Member                     Grant H. Saunders, Professional 
Daniel A. George, Senior                 Staff Member
    Investigative Counsel            Samantha O. Stiles, Chief 
Jacob H. Glick, Investigative            Administrative Officer
    Counsel                          Sean P. Tonolli, Senior 
Aaron S. Greene, Clerk                   Investigative Counsel
Marc S. Harris, Senior               David A. Weinberg, Senior 
    Investigative Counsel                Professional Staff Member
Alice K. Hayes, Clerk                Amanda S. Wick, Senior 
Quincy T. Henderson, Staff               Investigative Counsel
    Assistant                        Darrin L. Williams, Jr., Staff 
Camisha L. Johnson, Professional         Assistant
    Staff Member                     John F. Wood, Senior Investigative 
                                         Counsel
                                     Zachary S. Wood, Clerk
                       
                       CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS

                             Rawaa Alobaidi
                             Melinda Arons
                              Steve Baker
                            Elizabeth Bisbee
                              David Canady
                             John Coughlin
                             Aaron Dietzen
                              Gina Ferrise
                           Angel Goldsborough
                             James Goldston
                              Polly Grube
                          L. Christine Healey
                             Danny Holladay
                              Percy Howard
                              Dean Jackson
                           Stephanie J. Jones
                              Hyatt Mamoun
                               Mary Marsh
                               Todd Mason
                              Ryan Mayers
                              Jeff McBride
                               Fred Muram
                             Alex Newhouse
                              John Norton
                             Orlando Pinder
                               Owen Pratt
                              Dan Pryzgoda
                              Brian Sasser
                            William Scherer
                              Driss Sekkat
                              Chris Stuart
                            Preston Sullivan
                              Brian Young

                           Innovative Driven
                            
                            C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page

                               STATEMENTS

The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee 
  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
  Capitol........................................................     1
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to 
  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol     2
The Honorable Adam Schiff, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California............................................     4

                               WITNESSES
                                Panel I

Honorable Rusty Bowers, Speaker, Arizona House of Representatives     8
Mr. Brad Raffensperger, Georgia Secretary of State...............    19
Mr. Gabriel Sterling, Chief Operating Officer, Office of the 
  Georgia Secretary of State.....................................    20

                                Panel II

Ms. Wandrea Arshaye ``Shaye'' Moss, Former Registration Officer, 
  Fulton County Department of Registration and Elections, Fulton 
  County, Georgia................................................    31

 
                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

                              ----------                              


                         Tuesday, June 21, 2022

                     U.S. House of Representatives,
 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
                                 the United States Capitol,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 1:01 p.m., in 
room 390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson 
[Chairman of the Committee] presiding.
    Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger.
    Chairman Thompson. The Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in 
order.
    Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the 
Committee in recess at any point.
    Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 10, the 
Chair announces the Committee's approval to release the 
deposition material presented during today's hearing.
    Good afternoon. In our last hearing, we told the story of a 
scheme driven by Donald Trump to pressure former Vice President 
Mike Pence to illegally overturn the election results. We 
showed that, when the pressure campaign failed and Mike Pence 
fulfilled his Constitutional obligation, Donald Trump turned a 
violent mob loose on him. We showed that the mob came within 
roughly 40 feet of the Vice President.
    Today, we will show that what happened to Mike Pence wasn't 
an isolated part of Donald Trump's scheme to overturn the 
election. In fact, pressuring public servants into betraying 
their oath was a fundamental part of the playbook.
    A handful of election officials in several key States stood 
between Donald Trump and the upending of American democracy.
    As we began today, it is important to remember, when we 
count the votes for President, we count the votes State by 
State. For the most part, the candidates who win the popular 
vote in a State wins all the State's electoral college votes. 
Whoever wins a majority of the electoral college votes wins the 
Presidency.
    So, when Donald Trump tried to overturn the election 
results, he focused on just a few States. He wanted officials 
at the local and State level to say the vote was tainted by 
wide-spread fraud and throw out the results, even though, as we 
showed last week, there wasn't any voter fraud that could have 
overturned the election results.
    Like Mike Pence, these public servants wouldn't go along 
with Donald Trump's scheme. When they wouldn't embrace the Big 
Lie and substitute the will of the voters with Donald Trump's 
will to remain in power, Donald Trump worked to ensure they'd 
face the consequences. Threats to people's livelihood and 
lives. Threats of violence that Donald Trump knew about and 
amplified.
    In our other hearings, we can't just look backward at what 
happened in late 2020 and early 2021 because the danger hasn't 
gone away. Our democracy endured a mighty test on January 6th 
and in the days before. We say our institutions held. But what 
does that really mean? Democratic institutions aren't 
abstractions or ideas. They are local officials who oversee 
elections, secretaries of state, people in whom we have placed 
our trust that they will carry out their duties. But what if 
they don't?
    Two weeks ago, New Mexico held its primary elections. One 
county commission refused to certify the results, citing vague, 
unsupported claims dealing with Dominion voting machines. The 
courts stepped in, saying New Mexico law required the 
commission to certify the results.
    Two of the three members of the commission finally 
relented. One still refused, saying his vote, ``isn't based on 
any evidence. It's not based on any facts. It's only based on 
my gut feeling and my own intuition, and that's all I need.'' 
By the way, a few months ago, this county commissioner was 
found guilty of illegally entering the Capitol Grounds on 
January 6th.
    This story reminds us of a few things. First, as we have 
shown in our previous hearings, claims that wide-spread voter 
fraud tainted the 2020 Presidential election have always been a 
lie. Donald Trump knew they were a lie, and he kept amplifying 
them anyway.
    Everything we describe today, the relentless, destructive 
pressure campaign on State and local officials, was all based 
on a lie. Donald Trump knew it. He did it anyway.
    Second, the lie hasn't gone away. It is corrupting our 
democratic institutions. People who believe that lie are now 
seeking positions of public trust. As seen in New Mexico, their 
oath to the people they serve will take a backseat to their 
commitment to the Big Lie. If that happens, who will make sure 
our institutions don't break under the pressure? We won't have 
close calls. We will have a catastrophe.
    My distinguished colleague from California, Mr. Schiff, 
will present much of the Select Committee's findings on this 
matter. First, I am pleased to recognize our Vice Chair, Ms. 
Cheney of Wyoming, for any opening statement she would care to 
offer.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Today we will begin examining President Trump's effort to 
overturn the election by exerting pressure on State officials 
and State legislatures.
    Donald Trump had a direct and personal role in this effort, 
as did Rudy Giuliani, as did John Eastman. In other words, the 
same people who were attempting to pressure Vice President Mike 
Pence to reject electoral votes illegally were also 
simultaneously working to reverse the outcome of the 2020 
election at the State level.
    Each of these efforts to overturn the election is 
independently serious. Each deserves attention, both by 
Congress and by our Department of Justice. But, as a Federal 
court has already indicated, these efforts were also part of a 
broader plan. All of this was done in preparation for January 
6th.
    I would note two points for particular focus today. First, 
today you will hear about calls made by President Trump to 
officials of Georgia and other States. As you listen to these 
tapes, keep in mind what Donald Trump already knew at the time 
he was making those calls. He had been told over and over again 
that his stolen election allegations were nonsense. For 
example, this is what former Attorney General Bill Barr said to 
President Trump about allegations in Georgia.

    Attorney General Barr. We took a look--a hard look--at this 
ourselves. And based on our review of it, including the interviews of 
the key witnesses, the Fulton County allegations were--had no merit. 
The ballots under the table were legitimate ballots. They weren't in a 
suitcase. They had been pre-opened for eventually feeding into the 
machine. All the stuff about the water leak and that there was some 
subterfuge involved--we felt there was some confusion, but there was no 
evidence of a subterfuge to create an opportunity to feed things into 
the count. And so, we didn't see any evidence of fraud in the Fulton 
County episode.

    Vice Chair Cheney. And Acting Deputy Attorney General 
Richard Donoghue told Donald Trump this.

    Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue. And I said something to 
the effect of, ``Sir, we've done dozens of investigations, hundreds of 
interviews. The major allegations are not supported by the evidence 
developed.''

    Vice Chair Cheney. Mr. Trump was told by his own advisors 
that he had no basis for his stolen election claims. Yet he 
continued to pressure State officials to change the election 
results.
    Second, you will hear about a number of threats and efforts 
to pressure State officials to reverse the election outcome. 
One of our witnesses today, Gabriel Sterling, explicitly warned 
President Trump about potential violence on December 1, 2020, 
more than a month before January 6th. You will see excerpts 
from that video repeatedly today.

    Mr. Sterling. It's all gone too far. All of it. Joe diGenova today 
asked for Chris Krebs, a patriot who ran CISA, to be shot. A 20-
something tech in Gwinnett County today has death threats and a noose 
put out saying he should be hung for treason because he was 
transferring a report on batches from an EMS to a county computer, so 
he could read it.
    It has to stop. Mr. President, you have not condemned these actions 
or this language. Senators, you have not condemned this language or 
these actions. This has to stop. We need you to step up, and if you're 
going to take a position of leadership, show some.
    My boss, Secretary Raffensperger--his address is out there. They 
have people doing caravans in front of their house. They've had people 
come on to their property . . . 
    It has to stop. This is elections. This is the backbone of 
democracy. And all of you who have not said a damn word are complicit 
in this.

    Vice Chair Cheney. The point is this: Donald Trump did not 
care about the threats of violence. He did not condemn them. He 
made no effort to stop them. He went forward with his fake 
allegations anyway.
    One more point: I would urge all of those watching today to 
focus on the evidence the Committee will present. Don't be 
distracted by politics. This is serious. We cannot let America 
become a Nation of conspiracy theories and thug violence.
    Finally, I want to thank our witnesses today, for all of 
your service to our country. Today all of America will hear 
about the selfless actions of these men and women who acted 
honorably to uphold the law, protect our freedom, and preserve 
our Constitution.
    Today, Mr. Chairman, we will all see an example of what 
truly makes America great.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, the Chair recognizes 
the gentleman from California, Mr. Schiff, for an opening 
statement.
    Mr. Schiff. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and Madam Vice Chair.
    On November 3, 2020, Donald Trump ran for reelection to the 
Office of the Presidency, and he lost. His opponent, Joe Biden, 
finished ahead in the key battleground States of Arizona, 
Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Georgia, and elsewhere.
    Nevertheless, and for the first time in history, the losing 
Presidential candidate fought to hold on to power. As we have 
seen in previous hearings, he did so through a variety of 
means.
    On election day, he sought to stop the counting of the 
vote, knowing that the millions of absentee ballots elections 
officials would be counting on election day and thereafter 
would run strongly against him and deliver a victory to Joe 
Biden.
    Next, and when he could not stop the counting, he tried to 
stop State legislatures and Governors from certifying the 
results of the election. He went to court and filed dozens of 
frivolous lawsuits, making unsubstantiated claims of fraud.
    When that too failed, he mounted a pressure campaign 
directed at individual State legislators to try to get them to 
go back into session and either declare him the winner, 
decertify Joe Biden as the winner, or send two slates of 
electors to Congress, one for Biden and one for him, and 
pressure Vice President Pence to choose him as the winner.
    But the State legislatures wouldn't go along with this 
scheme, and neither would the Vice President. None of the 
legislatures agreed to go back into special session and declare 
him the winner. No legitimate State authority in the States 
Donald Trump lost would agree to appoint fake Trump electors 
and send them to Congress.
    But this didn't stop the Trump campaign either. They 
assembled groups of individuals in key battleground States and 
got them to call themselves electors, created phony 
certificates associated with these fake electors, and then 
transmitted these certificates to Washington and to the 
Congress to be counted during the joint session of Congress on 
January 6th.
    None of this worked. But, according to Federal District 
Judge David Carter, former President Trump and others likely 
violated multiple Federal laws by engaging in this scheme, 
including conspiracy to defraud the United States. You will 
hear evidence of the former President and his top advisers' 
direct involvement in key elements of this plot, or what Judge 
Carter called a ``coup in search of a legal theory.''
    For, as the judge explained, ``President Trump's pressure 
campaign to stop the electoral count did not end with Vice 
President Pence--it targeted every tier of federal and state 
elected officials. Convincing state legislatures,'' he said, 
``to certify competing electors was essential to stop the count 
and ensure President Trump's reelection.''
    As we have seen in our prior hearings, running through this 
scheme was a Big Lie that the election was plagued with massive 
fraud and somehow stolen.
    You will remember what the President's own Attorney 
General, Bill Barr, said he told the President about these 
claims of massive fraud affecting the outcome of the election.

    Attorney General Barr. And I told him that the stuff that his 
people were shoveling out to the public were bull--was bullshit. I mean 
that the claims of fraud were bullshit.

    Mr. Schiff. The President's lie was and is a dangerous 
cancer on the body politic. If you can convince Americans that 
they cannot trust their own elections, that any time they lose 
it is somehow illegitimate, then what is left but violence to 
determine who should govern?
    This brings us to the focus of today's hearing. When State 
elections officials refused to stop the count, Donald Trump and 
his campaign tried to put pressure on them. When State 
executive officials refused to certify him the winner of States 
he lost, he applied more pressure. When State legislatures 
refused to go back into session and appoint Trump electors, he 
amped up the pressure yet again. Anyone who got in the way of 
Donald Trump's continued hold on power after he lost the 
election was the subject of a dangerous and escalating campaign 
of pressure.
    This pressure campaign brought angry phone calls and texts, 
armed protests, intimidation, and, all too often, threats of 
violence and death. State legislators were singled out. So too 
were State-wide elections officials. Even local elections 
workers diligently doing their jobs were accused of being 
criminals and had their lives turned upside down.
    As we will show, the President's supporters heard the 
former President's claims of fraud and the false allegations he 
made against State and local officials as a call to action.

    Crowd. Stop-the-steal! Stop-the-steal! Stop-the-steal! [inaudible]
    Voice. You're a threat to democracy! [inaudible] You're a threat to 
free and honest elections.
    Voice. We love America. We love our rights and our freedoms. 
[inaudible]
    Voice. You are a tyrant. You are a felon. And you must turn 
yourself into authorities immediately. [inaudible]
    Michigan Secretary of State Benson. And then about 45 minutes 
later, we started to hear the noises outside my home, and that's when 
my stomach sunk. And I thought, ``It's me.'' And there--and then it's 
just--we don't know what's going on--the uncertainty of that was what--
was the fear. Like, are they coming with guns? Are they going to attack 
my house? I'm in here with my kid. You know, I'm trying to put him to 
bed. And so, it was--yeah, that was the scariest moment just not 
knowing what was going to happen.

    Mr. Schiff. This pressure campaign against State and local 
officials spanned numerous contested States, as you will see in 
this video produced by the Select Committee.

    Mr. Roselman. My name is Josh Roselman. I'm an investigative 
counsel for the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th 
Attack on the United States Capitol.
    Beginning in late-November 2020, the President and his lawyers 
started appearing before State legislators urging them to give their 
electoral votes to Trump even though he lost the popular vote.
    Mr. Giuliani. I represent President Trump along with Jenna Ellis. 
And this is our fourth or fifth hearing.
    President Trump. This election has to be turned around because we 
won Pennsylvania by a lot, and we won all of these swing States by a 
lot.
    Mr. Roselman. This was a strategy with both practical and legal 
elements. The Select Committee has obtained an email from just 2 days 
after the election in which a Trump campaign lawyer named Cleta 
Mitchell asked another Trump lawyer, John Eastman, to write a memo 
justifying the idea.
    Mr. George. When do you remember this coming up as an option in the 
post-election period for the first time?
    Ms. Mitchell. Right after the election. It might have been before 
the election.
    Mr. Roselman. Eastman prepared a memo attempting to justify this 
strategy, which was circulated to the Trump White House, Rudy 
Giuliani's legal team, and State legislators around the country. And he 
appeared before the Georgia State Legislature to advocate for it 
publicly.
    Mr. Eastman. You could also do what the Florida legislature was 
prepared to do, which is to adopt a slate of electors yourselves. And 
when you add in the mix of the significant statistical anomalies, and 
sworn affidavits, and video evidence of outright election fraud, I 
don't think it's just your authority to do that. But quite frankly, I 
think you have a duty to do that, to protect the integrity of the 
election here in Georgia.
    Mr. Roselman. But Republican officials in several States released 
public statements recognizing that President Trump's proposal was 
unlawful. For instance, Georgia Governor Brian Kemp called the proposal 
``unconstitutional,'' while Arizona House Speaker Rusty Bowers wrote 
that the idea would undermine the rule of law. The pressure campaign to 
get State legislators to go along with the scheme intensified when 
President Trump invited delegations from Michigan and Pennsylvania to 
the White House.
    Mr. Harris. Either you or Speaker Chatfield, did you make the point 
to the President that you were not going to do anything that violated 
Michigan law?
    Mr. Shirkey. I believe we did. Whether or not--was those exact 
words or not, we're--I think the words that I would have more likely 
used is, ``We are going to follow the law.''
    Mr. Roselman. Nevertheless, the pressure continued. The next day 
President Trump tweeted, ``Hopefully the Courts and/or Legislatures 
will have . . . the COURAGE to do what has to be done to maintain the 
integrity of our Elections, and the United States of America itself. 
THE WORLD IS WATCHING!!!'' He posted multiple messages on Facebook, 
listing the contact information for State officials and urging his 
supporters to contact them to, ``Demand a vote on decertification.'' In 
one of those posts, President Trump disclosed Mike Shirkey's personal 
phone number to his millions of followers.
    Mr. Shirkey. All I remember is receiving over--just shy of 4,000 
text messages over a short period of time calling to take action . . . 
    It was a loud noise--loud consistent cadence of, ``You know, we 
hear that--that the Trump folks are calling and asking for changes in 
the electors, and you guys can do this.'' Well, you know, they were--
they were believing things that were untrue.
    Mr. Roselman. These efforts also involved targeted outreach to 
State legislators----
    Ms. McCallum. Hi, Representative. My name is Angela McCallum. I'm 
calling from Trump campaign headquarters in Washington, DC. You do have 
the power to reclaim your authority and send a slate of electors that 
will support President Trump and Vice President Pence.
    Mr. Roselman [continuing]. From President Trump's lawyers and from 
Trump himself.
    President Trump. And I've become friendly with legislators that I 
didn't know 4 weeks ago.
    Mr. Roselman. Another legislator, Pennsylvania House Speaker Bryan 
Cutler, received daily voicemails from Trump's lawyers in the last week 
of November.
    Mr. Giuliani. Mr. Speaker, this is Rudy Giuliani and Jenna Ellis. 
We're calling you together because we'd like to discuss obviously the 
election.
    Ms. Ellis. Hello, Mr. Speaker. This is Jenna Ellis and I'm here 
with Mayor Giuliani.
    Mr. Giuliani. Hey, Bryan. It's Rudy. I really have something 
important to call to your attention that I think really changes things.
    Mr. Roselman. Cutler felt that the outreach was inappropriate and 
asked his lawyers to tell Rudy Giuliani to stop calling. But Giuliani 
continued to reach out.
    Mr. Giuliani. I understand that you don't want to talk to me now. I 
just want to bring some facts to your attention and talk to you as a 
fellow Republican.
    Mr. Roselman. On December 30th, Trump ally Steve Bannon announced a 
protest at Cutler's home.
    Mr. Bannon. We're getting on the road, and we're going down to 
Cutler. We're going to start going to offices. And if we have to, we're 
going to go to homes, and we're going to let them know what we think 
about them.
    Pennsylvania Speaker Cutler. There were multiple protests. I 
actually don't remember the exact number. There was at least three, I 
think, outside of either my district office or my home. And you're 
correct, my son--my then-15-year-old son was home by himself for the 
first one . . . 
    All of my personal information was doxxed on-line. It was my 
personal email, my personal cell phone, my home phone number. In fact, 
we had to disconnect our home phone for about 3 days because it would 
ring all hours of the night and would fill up with messages.
    Voice. Bryan Cutler, we are outside.
    Voice. Clerks facing felony charges in Michigan. Poll watchers 
denied access in Pennsylvania----
    Mr. Roselman. These ads were another element in the effort. The 
Trump campaign spent millions of dollars running ads on-line and on 
television.
    Voice. The evidence is overwhelming. Call your Governor and 
legislators. Demand they inspect the machines and hear the evidence.
    Mr. Roselman. Public pressure on State officials often grew 
dangerous in the lead-up to January 6th.
    Crowd. Let-us-in. Let-us-in. Let-us-in. Let-us-in.
    Crowd. Special session. Special session. Special session.
    Mr. Alexander. We'll light the whole shit on fire.
    Mr. Fuentes. What are we going to do? What can you and I do to a 
State legislator besides kill him? Although, we should not do that. I'm 
not advising that, but I mean, what else can you do? Right?
    Voice. The punishment for treason is death.

    Mr. Schiff. The State pressure campaign and the danger it 
posed to State officials and to State capitols around the 
Nation was a dangerous precursor to the violence we saw on 
January 6th at the U.S. Capitol.
    Today, you will hear from Rusty Bowers, the Republican 
speaker of the Arizona House of Representatives. He will tell 
us about his conversations with the President, Rudy Giuliani, 
and John Eastman, and what the President's team asked of him, 
and how his oath of office would not permit it.
    You will then hear from Brad Raffensperger, the Republican 
Secretary of State of Georgia, who Trump directed to ``find 
11,780 votes'' that did not exist but just the exact number of 
votes needed to overtake Joe Biden.
    You will also hear from Gabriel Sterling, his chief 
operating officer, about the spurious claims of fraud in the 
elections in Georgia and who, responding to a cascading set of 
threats to his elections team, warned the President to stop, 
that someone was going to get killed.
    You will hear from Wandrea ``Shaye'' Moss, a former local 
elections worker in Fulton County, Georgia, about how all the 
lies about the election impacted the lives of real people who 
administer our elections and still do.
    You will hear what they experienced when the most powerful 
man in the world, the President of the United States, sought to 
cling to power after being voted out of office by the American 
people.
    The system held, but barely. The system held because people 
of courage, Republicans and Democrats, like the witnesses you 
will hear today, put their oath to the country and Constitution 
above any other consideration. They did their jobs, as we must 
do ours.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. I now welcome our first panel of 
witnesses. We are joined today by a distinguished legislator 
from Arizona, Rusty Bowers, who is the Republican speaker of 
the Arizona House of Representatives.
    Mr. Bowers was first elected to the State legislature in 
1993 and has served as speaker since 2019.
    Welcome, Speaker Bowers.
    Brad Raffensperger is the 29th secretary of state of 
Georgia, serving in this role since 2019. As an elected 
official and a Republican, Secretary Raffensperger is 
responsible for supervising elections in Georgia and 
maintaining the State's public records.
    Welcome, Mr. Secretary.
    Gabriel Sterling is the chief operating officer in the 
Georgia Secretary of State's Office. Mr. Sterling was the 
State-wide voting systems implementation manager for the 2020 
election in Georgia, responsible for leading the secretary of 
state's response to the COVID pandemic and rolling out 
modernized voting equipment.
    I will swear in our witnesses.
    The witnesses will please stand and raise their right 
hands.
    [Witnesses sworn.]
    Thank you. Please be seated.
    Let the record reflect that the witnesses answered in the 
affirmative.
    Speaker Bowers, thank you for being with us today. You are 
the speaker of the Arizona house and a self-described 
conservative Republican. You campaigned for President Trump and 
with him during the 2020 election.
    Is it fair to say that you wanted Donald Trump to win a 
second term in office?
    Mr. Bowers. Yes, sir.
    Chairman Thompson. Please.
    Mr. Bowers. Yes, sir. Thank you.
    Chairman Thompson. Is it your understanding that President 
Biden was the winner of the popular vote in Arizona in 2020?
    Mr. Bowers. Yes, sir.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you.
    Pursuant to section 5(c)(8) of House Resolution 503, the 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. Schiff, for 
questions.
    Mr. Schiff. Speaker Bowers, thank you for being with us 
today. Before we begin with the questions that I have prepared 
for you, I wanted to ask you about a statement that former 
President Trump issued, which I received just prior to the 
hearing. Have you had a chance to review that statement?
    Mr. Bowers. My counsel called from Arizona and read it to 
me. Yes, sir.
    Mr. Schiff. In that statement--I won't read it in its 
entirety--former President Trump begins by calling you a RINO, 
Republican in name only. He then references a conversation in 
November 2020 in which he claims that you told him that the 
election was rigged and that he had won Arizona.
    To quote the former President, ``During the conversation, 
he told me the election was rigged and that I won Arizona.''
    Did you have such a conversation with the President?
    Mr. Bowers. I did have a conversation with the President. 
That certainly isn't it. There were parts of it that are true, 
but there are parts that are not, sir.
    Mr. Schiff. The part that I read you. Is that false?
    Mr. Bowers. Anywhere, anyone, any time has said that I said 
the election was rigged, that would not be true.
    Mr. Schiff. When the former President in his statement 
today claimed that you told him that he won Arizona, is that 
also false?
    Mr. Bowers. That is also false.
    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Bowers, I understand that, after the 
election--and I don't know whether this is the conversation the 
former President is referring to--but, after the election, you 
received a phone call from President Trump and Rudy Giuliani, 
in which they discussed the results of the Presidential 
election in Arizona. If you would, tell us about that call and 
whether the former President or Mr. Giuliani raised allegations 
of election fraud.
    Mr. Bowers. Thank you. My wife and I had returned from 
attending our church meetings. It was on a Sunday. We were 
still in the driveway, and I had received a call from a 
colleague telling me that the White House was trying to get in 
touch with her and I, and that she said: ``Please, if you get a 
call, let's try to take this together.''
    Immediately, I saw that the White House on my Bluetooth was 
calling, and I took the call and was asked by the, I would 
presume, the operator at the White House if I would hold for 
the President, which I did. And Mr. Giuliani came on first, and 
niceties. Then Mr. Trump, President Trump, then-President 
Trump, came on, and we initiated a conversation.
    Mr. Schiff. During that conversation, did you ask Mr. 
Giuliani for proof of these allegations of fraud that he was 
making?
    Mr. Bowers. On multiple occasions, yes.
    Mr. Schiff. When you asked him for evidence of this fraud, 
what did he say?
    Mr. Bowers. He said that they did have proof. I asked him: 
``Do you have names?''
    For example, we have 200,000 illegal immigrants, some large 
number, 5,000 or 6,000 dead people, et cetera.
    I said: ``Do you have their names?''
    ``Yes.''
    ``Will you give them to me?''
    ``Yes.''
    The President interrupted and said: ``Give the man what he 
needs, Rudy.''
    He said: ``I will.''
    That happened on at least two occasions, that interchange 
in the conversation.
    Mr. Schiff. So, Mr. Giuliani was claiming in the call that 
there were hundreds of thousands of undocumented people and 
thousands of dead people who had purportedly voted in the 
election?
    Mr. Bowers. Yes.
    Mr. Schiff. You asked him for evidence of that?
    Mr. Bowers. I did.
    Mr. Schiff. Did you ever receive from him that evidence 
either during the call, after the call, or to this day?
    Mr. Bowers. Never.
    Mr. Schiff. What was the ask during this call? He was 
making these allegations of fraud, but he had something or a 
couple things that they wanted you do. What were those?
    Mr. Bowers. The ones I remember were, first, that we would 
hold, that I would allow an official committee at the capitol 
so that they could hear this evidence and that we could take 
action thereafter.
    I refused. I said, up to that time, the circus--I called it 
a circus--had been brewing with lots of demonstrations, both at 
the counting center, at the capitol, and other places, and I 
didn't want to have that in the house. I did not feel that the 
evidence, granted in its absence, merited a hearing. I didn't 
want to be used as a pawn if there was some other need that the 
committee hearing would fulfill. So, that was the first ask, 
that we hold an official committee hearing.
    Mr. Schiff. What was his second ask?
    Mr. Bowers. I said: To what end? To what end, the hearing?
    He said: ``Well, we have heard by an official high up in 
the Republican legislature that there is a legal theory or a 
legal ability in Arizona that you can remove the electors of 
President Biden and replace them. And we would like to have the 
legitimate opportunity through the committee to come to that 
end and remove that.''
    And I said: That is totally new to me. I have never heard 
of any such thing.
    And he pressed that point.
    And I said: ``Look, you are asking me do something that is 
counter to my oath when I swore to the Constitution to uphold 
it, and I also swore to the constitution and the laws of the 
State of Arizona. This is totally foreign as an idea or a 
theory to me, and I would never do anything of such magnitude 
without deep consultation with qualified attorneys.''
    And I said: ``I have got some good attorneys, and I am 
going to give you their names. But you are asking me do 
something against my oath, and I will not break my oath.''
    I think that was up to that point.
    Mr. Schiff. During the conversation--and you heard, I 
think, when we played a snippet of Mr. Giuliani calling other 
State legislators and saying he was calling as essentially a 
fellow Republican--did he make a similar appeal to you or bring 
up the fact that you shared a similar party?
    Mr. Bowers. Whether it was in that call or in a later 
meeting, he did bring that up more than once.
    Mr. Schiff. How would he bring that up?
    Mr. Bowers. He would say: ``Aren't we all Republicans here? 
I would think we would get a better reception. I mean, I would 
think you would listen a little more open to my suggestions--
that we are all Republicans.''
    Mr. Schiff. This evidence that you asked him for that would 
justify this extraordinary step, I think you said they never 
produced. Why did you feel, either in the absence of that 
evidence or with it, what they were asking you to do would 
violate your oath to the Constitution?
    Mr. Bowers. First of all, when the people--and in Arizona, 
I believe it is some 40-plus years earlier, the legislature had 
established the manner of electing our officials or the 
electors for the Presidential race.
    Once it was given to the people, as in Bush v. Gore, 
illustrated by the Supreme Court, it becomes a fundamental 
right of the people. So, as far as I was concerned, for someone 
to ask me in--I will call it a paucity. There was no evidence 
being presented of any strength. Evidence can be hearsay 
evidence. It is still evidence, but it is still hearsay. But 
strong judicial-quality evidence, anything that would say to 
me, you have a doubt, deny your oath. I will not do that. On 
more than one occasion throughout all this, that has been 
brought up. It is a tenet of my faith that the Constitution is 
divinely inspired, one of my most basic foundational beliefs.
    So, for me to do that because somebody just asked me to is 
foreign to my very being. I will not do it.
    Mr. Schiff. During that conversation, Speaker Bowers, did 
you ask him if what he was proposing had ever been done before?
    Mr. Bowers. I did.
    Mr. Schiff. What did he say?
    Mr. Bowers. He said: Well, I am not familiar with Arizona 
law or any other laws, but I don't think so.
    That also was brought up in other conversations, both with 
him and with John Eastman and others.
    Mr. Schiff. Speaker Bowers, I understand that, a week after 
that call, Mr. Giuliani appeared with others associated with 
President Trump's effort to overturn the result of the election 
at a purported legislative hearing in a hotel ballroom in 
Phoenix. Was this an official hearing of the State legislature?
    Mr. Bowers. It was not.
    Mr. Schiff. Why was it not a real or official hearing of 
the legislature?
    Mr. Bowers. A legislator can hold a group meeting; he can 
call it a hearing. But, when they asked me to have an official 
hearing, we establish it by protocols, public notice, et 
cetera. It is typically held at the capitol, but it doesn't 
need to be. We can authorize a hearing off-campus.
    In this case, I had been asked on several occasions to 
allow a hearing. I denied it but said, ``You are free to hold a 
meeting, any meeting you want,'' to the person who asked, and 
which he ultimately did. I think he was a little frustrated, 
but he ultimately did.
    Mr. Schiff. This meeting was the same day, I believe, that 
the Governor of Arizona, Doug Ducey, certified Biden as the 
winner of the Presidential election in Arizona.
    Did you meet with Mr. Giuliani and his associates while 
they were in Phoenix sometime after that purported legislative 
hearing at the hotel?
    Mr. Bowers. Yes, I did, sir.
    Mr. Schiff. At that meeting, did Mr. Giuliani raise any 
specific allegations of election fraud again?
    Mr. Bowers. His initial comments were, again, the litany of 
groups of illegal individuals or people deceased, et cetera. He 
had brought that up. I wasn't alone in that meeting. There were 
others. Other members of the senate aggressively questioned 
him. Then I proceeded to question him on the proof that he was 
going to bring me, et cetera. But he did bring those up, yes.
    Mr. Schiff. These other legislators were also Republican 
members of the senate?
    Mr. Bowers. They were. Yes, sir.
    Mr. Schiff. Did they also press him for proof of those 
allegations?
    Mr. Bowers. They pressed him very strongly, two of them 
especially, very strongly.
    Mr. Schiff. At some point, did Mr. Giuliani ask one of the 
other attorneys on his team to help him out with the evidence?
    Mr. Bowers. He did. He asked Jenna Ellis, who was sitting 
to his right. One thing was that it was more to the point of, 
was there sufficient evidence or action that we could justify 
the recalling of the electors? But, at that part of the 
conversation, I know he referred to someone else. But he did 
ask, ``Do we have the proof,'' to Jenna, Ms. Ellis, and she 
said, ``Yes.''
    And I said: ``I want the names. Do you have the names?''
    ``Yes.''
    ``Do you have how they voted?''
    ``We have all the information.''
    I said: ``Can you get to me that information? Did you bring 
it with you?''
    She said: ``No.''
    Both Mr. Giuliani asked her and I asked generally if they 
had brought it with them.
    She said: ``No. It is not with me, but we can get it to 
you.''
    I said, ``Then you didn't bring me the evidence,'' which 
was repeated in different iterations for some period of time.
    Mr. Schiff. At some point, did one of them make a comment 
that they didn't have evidence, but they had a lot of theories?
    Mr. Bowers. That was Mr. Giuliani.
    Mr. Schiff. What exactly did he say, and how did that come 
up?
    Mr. Bowers. My recollection, he said: ``We've got lots of 
theories; we just don't have the evidence.''
    I don't know if that was a gaffe, or maybe he didn't think 
through what he said. But both myself and others in my group, 
the three in my group, and my counsel both remembered that 
specifically. Afterwards, we kind-of laughed about it.
    Mr. Schiff. Getting back to the ask in that phone call that 
preceded this meeting, he wanted you to have the legislature 
dismiss the Biden electors and replace them with Trump electors 
on the basis of these theories of fraud?
    Mr. Bowers. He did not say it in those exact words, but he 
did say that Arizona law, according to what he understood, that 
that would be allowed and that we needed to come into session 
to take care of that, which initiated a discussion about, 
again, what I can legally and not legally do. I can't go into 
session in Arizona unilaterally or on my sole prerogative.
    Mr. Schiff. This meeting or at any later time, did anyone 
provide you with evidence of election fraud sufficient to 
affect the outcome of the Presidential election in Arizona?
    Mr. Bowers. No one provided me ever such evidence.
    Mr. Schiff. The Select Committee has uncovered evidence in 
the course of our investigation that at ``stop the steal'' 
protests at State capitols across the country, there were 
individuals with ties to the groups or parties involved in the 
January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol. One of those incursions 
took place in the Arizona House of Representatives building as 
you can see in this footage.
    [Arizona State Capitol video footage shown.]
    Mr. Schiff. This is previously undisclosed video of 
protestors illegally entering and refusing to leave the 
building. One of the individuals prominently shown in this 
video is Jacob Chansley. Perhaps better known as the ``QAnon 
Shaman,'' this rioter entered the Capitol on January 6th, was 
photographed leaving a threatening note on the dais in the U.S. 
Senate Chamber, and was ultimately sentenced to 41 months in 
prison after pleading guilty to obstruction of an official 
proceeding.
    Other protesters who occupied the Arizona House of 
Representatives building included Proud Boys, while men armed 
with rifles stood just outside the entrance.
    I understand these protestors were calling for you by name, 
Speaker Bowers. Is that correct?
    Mr. Bowers. That is correct.
    Mr. Schiff. Speaker Bowers, did the President call you 
again later in December?
    Mr. Bowers. He did, sir.
    Mr. Schiff. Did you tell the President in that second call 
that you supported him, that you voted for him, but that you 
were not going to do anything illegal for him?
    Mr. Bowers. I did, sir.
    Mr. Schiff. Nevertheless, his lawyer, John Eastman, called 
you some days later on January 4, 2021. He did have a very 
specific ask that would have required you to do just what you 
had already told the President you wouldn't do, something that 
would violate your oath. Is that correct?
    Mr. Bowers. That is correct. It wasn't just me. I had my 
counsel and others on the call.
    Mr. Schiff. What did Dr. Eastman want you to do?
    Mr. Bowers. That we would in fact vote, take a vote to 
overthrow--or I shouldn't say overthrow--that we would 
decertify the electors because we had plenary authority to do 
so. He cited Article II, section 1--I think it is clause 2--and 
said that, in his opinion, that gave us the authority if there 
was--I don't recall him saying sufficient evidence, but there 
was some call or some strong reason to do so that we--or 
justification to do so, that we could do that, and that he was 
asking that we--his suggestion was that we would do it.
    And I said: ``Again, I took an oath. For me to take that--
to do what you do would be counter to my oath.''
    I don't recall if it was in that conversation clearly that 
we talked more about the oath, but I said: ``What would you 
have me do?''
    He said: ``Just do it and let the courts sort it out.''
    I said: ``You are asking me to do something that has never 
been done in history--the history of the United States--and I 
am going to put my State through that without sufficient proof, 
and that is going to be good enough with me, that I would put 
us through that, my State, that I swore to uphold both in 
Constitution and in law? No, sir.''
    He said: Well, my suggestion would be just do it and let 
the courts figure it all out.
    He didn't use that exact phrase, but that is what his 
meaning was. I declined, and I believe that was close to the 
end of our phone call.
    Mr. Schiff. Again, this took place after you had recently 
spoken with President Trump and told him that you wouldn't do 
anything illegal for him. Is that right?
    Mr. Bowers. It wasn't days after--obviously, it was days 
after, but a few days had gone by.
    Mr. Schiff. But you had told President Trump you would not 
do anything illegal for him.
    Mr. Bowers. I did, both times.
    Mr. Schiff. You told Dr. Eastman that you did not believe 
there was legal support to justify what he was asking, but he 
still wanted you do it and effectively let the courts work it 
out.
    Mr. Bowers. I have been warned: Don't say things you think 
maybe he said. But I do remember him saying that the authority 
of the legislature was plenary and that you can do it.
    I said: ``Then you should know that I can't even call the 
legislature into session without a two-thirds majority vote. We 
are only 30 plus 1. There is no way that could happen.''
    Mr. Schiff. But, in your view, what he was asking you to do 
would have violated your oath to the Constitution, both the 
United States Constitution and the constitution of the State of 
Arizona?
    Mr. Bowers. Yes, sir.
    Mr. Schiff. Did you also receive a call from U.S. 
Representative Andy Biggs of Arizona on the morning of January 
6th?
    Mr. Bowers. I did.
    Mr. Schiff. What did Mr. Biggs ask you to do?
    Mr. Bowers. I believe that was the day that the vote was 
occurring to each State to have certification or to declare the 
certification of the electors. He asked if I would sign on both 
to a letter that had been sent from my State and/or that I 
would support the decertification of the electors. I said I 
would not.
    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Speaker, on December 4, 2020, shortly after 
your meeting with Rudy Giuliani and other allies of President 
Trump, you released a statement publicly addressing ``calls for 
the legislature to overturn the 2020 certified election 
results.'' The statement is very straightforward in explaining 
the ``breathtaking request,'' made by representatives of 
President Trump, ``that the Arizona legislature overturn the 
certified results of last month's election and deliver the 
State's electoral college votes to President Trump.'' Why did 
you believe, as you wrote in this statement, that the rule of 
law forbid you from doing what President Trump and his allies 
wanted you to do?
    Mr. Bowers. Representative--I am sorry; I should be saying, 
Mr. Chairman and Representative Schiff--there is two sides to 
the answer. One is, what am I allowed to do, and what am I 
forbidden to do? We have no legal pathway, both in State law 
nor, to my knowledge, in Federal law, for us to execute such a 
request. I am not allowed to walk or act beyond my authority. 
If I am not specifically authorized as a legislator--as a 
legislature--then I cannot act. To the point of calling us into 
session, some say that just a few legislators have plenary 
authority, and that has come as part of all of this discussion, 
I will call it.
    So, to not have authority and be forbidden to act beyond my 
authority on both counts, I am not authorized to take such 
action, and that would deny my oath.
    Mr. Schiff. In your statement, you included excerpts from 
President Ronald Reagan's inaugural address in 1981. The newly 
inaugurated President told the country, ``The orderly transfer 
of authority as called for in the Constitution routinely takes 
place, as it has for almost two centuries, and few of us stop 
to think how unique we really are. In the eyes of many in the 
world, this every-4-year ceremony we accept as normal is 
nothing less than a miracle.''
    Tell us, if you would, Mr. Speaker, why did you include 
President Reagan's words in your public statement?
    Mr. Bowers. Mr. Chairman, Representative Schiff, because I 
have a lot of admiration for Ronald Reagan. I had the 
opportunity of going to his home with one other person and 
walking through. I have a lot of admiration for him.
    When he pointed out, which is--I have lived in another 
country for a period of time and have visited a few countries. 
During election times, the fact that we allow an election, 
support an election, and stand behind an election, even in the 
past when there have been serious questions about the election, 
and then move on, without disturbance and with acceptance; that 
we choose--we choose--to follow the outcome of the will of the 
people, that will--it means a lot to me, and I know it meant a 
lot to him, and so we included that.
    Mr. Schiff. Thank you, Speaker Bowers.
    I now want to look even more deeply at the fake electors 
scheme. Every 4 years, citizens from all over the United States 
go to the polls to elect their President. Under our 
Constitution, when we cast our votes for President, we are 
actually voting to send electors pledged to our preferred 
candidate to the electoral college.
    In December, the electors in each State meet, cast their 
votes, and send those votes to Washington. There is only one 
legitimate slate of electors from each State. On the 6th day of 
January, Congress meets in a joint session to count those 
votes, and the winner of the electoral college vote becomes the 
President.
    In this next segment, you will hear how President Trump and 
his campaign were directly involved in advancing and 
coordinating the plot to replace legitimate Biden electors with 
fake electors not chosen by the voters. You will hear how this 
campaign convinced these fake electors to cast and submit their 
votes through fake certificates telling them that their votes 
would only be used in the event that President Trump won his 
legal challenges. Yet, when the President lost those legal 
challenges, when courts rejected them as frivolous and without 
merit, the fake elector scheme continued.
    At this point, President Trump's own lawyers, so-called 
``Team Normal,'' walked away rather than participate in the 
planning. His own White House Counsel's Office said that the 
plan was not legally sound. Let's play the following video 
produced by the Select Committee.

    Ms. Lucier. My name is Casey Lucier. I'm an investigative counsel 
for the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
the United States Capitol.
    On November 18th, a lawyer working with the Trump campaign, named 
Kenneth Chesebro, wrote a memo arguing that the Trump campaign should 
organize its own electors in the swing States that President Trump had 
lost. The Select Committee received testimony that those close to 
President Trump began planning to organize fake electors for Trump in 
States that Biden won in the weeks after the election.
    Mr. George. Who do you remember being involved in those early 
discussions around the Thanksgiving time regarding having alternate 
electors meet?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Giuliani, several of Mr. Giuliani's associates, 
Mr. Meadows, Members of Congress, although it's difficult to 
distinguish if the Members I'm thinking of were involved during 
Thanksgiving or if they're involved as we progressed through December.
    Ms. Lucier. At the President's direct request, the RNC assisted the 
campaign in coordinating this effort.
    Mr. Wood. What did the President say when he called you?
    Ms. McDaniel. Essentially, he turned the call over to Mr. Eastman 
who then proceeded to talk about the importance of the RNC helping the 
campaign gather these contingent electors in case any of the legal 
challenges that were on-going changed the result of any of the States. 
I think more just helping them reach out and assemble them. But that--
my understanding is the campaign did take the lead, and we just were 
helping them in that--in that role.
    Ms. Lucier. As President Trump and his supporters continued to lose 
lawsuits, some campaign lawyers became convinced that convening 
electors in States that Trump lost was no longer appropriate.
    Mr. Justin Clark. I just remember--I either replied or called 
somebody--saying, Unless we have litigation pending this, like, in 
these States, like, I don't think this is appropriate or, you know, 
this isn't the right thing to do. I don't remember how I phrased it, 
but I got into a little bit of a back-and-forth and I think it was with 
Ken Chesebro, where I said, All right, you know, you just get after it, 
like, I'm out.
    Mr. Morgan. At that point, I had Josh Finley email Mr. Chesebro 
politely to say, ``This is your task. You are responsible for the 
electoral college issues moving forward.'' . . . 
    And this was my way of taking that responsibility to zero.
    Ms. Lucier. The Committee learned the White House Counsel's Office 
also felt the plan was potentially illegal.
    Mr. George. And so, to be clear, did you hear the White House 
Counsel's Office say that this plan to have alternate electors meet and 
cast votes for Donald Trump in States that he had lost was not legally 
sound?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, sir.
    Mr. George. And who was present for that meeting that you remember?
    Ms. Hutchinson. It was in our offices. Mr. Meadows, Mr. Giuliani, 
and a few of Mr. Giuliani's associates.
    Ms. Lucier. The Select Committee interviewed several of the 
individual fake electors as well as Trump campaign staff who helped 
organize the effort.
    Mr. Sinners. We were just, you know, kind-of--kind-of useful idiots 
or rubes at that point. You know, a strong part of me really feels that 
it's just, kind-of, as the road continued and as that was failure, 
failure, failure that that got formulated as what we have on the table. 
Let's just do it.
    Ms. Lucier. And now, after what we've told you today about the 
Select Committee's investigation, about the conclusion of the 
professional lawyers on the campaign staff--Justin Clark, Matt Morgan, 
and Josh Finley--about their unwillingness to participate in the 
convening of these electors, how does that contribute to your 
understanding of these issues?
    Mr. Sinners. I'm angry. I'm angry because I think--I think in a 
sense, you know, no one really cared if--if people were potentially 
putting themselves in jeopardy.
    Ms. Lucier. Would you have not wanted to participate in this any 
further as well?
    Mr. Sinners. I absolutely would not have had I known that the three 
main lawyers for the campaign that I'd spoken to in the past and were 
leading up were not on board. Yeah.
    Mr. Hitt. I was told that these would only count if a court ruled 
in our favor. So, that would have been using our electors--well, it 
would have been using our electors in ways that we weren't told about, 
and we wouldn't have supported.
    Ms. Lucier. Documents obtained by the Select Committee indicate 
that instructions were given to the electors in several States that 
they needed to cast their ballots in ``complete secrecy.'' Because this 
scheme involved fake electors, those participating in certain States 
had no way to comply with State election laws, like where the electors 
were supposed to meet. One group of fake electors even considered 
hiding overnight to ensure that they could access the State capitol as 
required in Michigan.
    Mr. George. Did Mr. Norton say who he was working with at all on 
this effort to have electors meet?
    Ms. Cox. He said he was working with the President's campaign . . . 

    He told me that the Michigan Republican electors were planning to 
meet in the capitol and hide overnight, so that they could fulfill the 
role of casting their vote in--per law--in the Michigan chambers. And I 
told him in no uncertain terms that that was insane and inappropriate.
    Ms. Lucier. In one State, the fake electors even asked for a 
promise that the campaign would pay their legal fees if they got sued 
or charged with a crime.
    Ultimately, fake electors did meet on December 14, 2020, in 
Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania, New Mexico, Nevada, and 
Wisconsin. At the request of the Trump campaign, the electors from 
these battleground States signed documents falsely asserting that they 
were the ``duly elected electors,'' from their State and submitted them 
to the National Archives and to Vice President Pence in his capacity as 
President of the Senate.
    Here is what some of the fake electors' certificates look like as 
compared to the real ones. But these ballots had no legal effect. In an 
email produced to the Select Committee, Dr. Eastman told a Trump 
campaign representative that it did not matter that the electors had 
not been approved by a State authority.
    ``The fact that we have multiple slates of electors demonstrates 
the uncertainty of either. That should be enough.'' He urged that Pence 
``act boldly and be challenged.'' Documents produced to the Select 
Committee show that the Trump campaign took steps to ensure that the 
physical copies of the fake electors' electoral votes from two States 
were delivered to Washington for January 6th.
    Text messages exchanged between Republican Party officials in 
Wisconsin showed that on January 4th, the Trump campaign asked for 
someone to fly their fake electors' documents to Washington. A staffer 
for Wisconsin Senator Ron Johnson texted a staffer for Vice President 
Pence just minutes before the beginning of the joint session. This 
staffer stated that Senator Johnson wished to hand-deliver to the Vice 
President the fake electors' votes from Michigan and Wisconsin. The 
Vice President's aide unambiguously instructed them not to deliver the 
fake votes to the Vice President.
    Even though the fake electors' slates were transmitted to Congress 
and the Executive branch, the Vice President held firm in his position 
that his role was to count lawfully submitted electoral votes.
    Vice President Pence. Joseph R. Biden, Jr., of the State of 
Delaware has received 306 votes. Donald J. Trump of the State of 
Florida has received 232 votes.
    Ms. Lucier.  . . . Which is what he did when the joint session 
resumed on January 6th after the attack on the Capitol.

    Mr. Schiff. What we just heard in that video was an aide to 
the White House Chief of Staff telling this Committee that the 
White House Counsel's Office felt that this ``fake electors'' 
plan was not legally sound.
    Nevertheless, the Trump campaign went forward with the 
scheme anyway.
    Speaker Bowers, were you aware that fake electors had met 
in Phoenix on December 14th and purported to cast electoral 
votes for President Trump?
    Mr. Bowers. I was not.
    Mr. Schiff. When you learned that these electors had met 
and sent their electoral votes to Washington, what did you 
think?
    Mr. Bowers. Well, I thought of the book ``The Gang That 
Couldn't Shoot Straight.'' I just thought, this is a tragic 
parody.
    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Bowers, I understand that as you flew from 
Phoenix to Washington yesterday you reflected upon some 
passages from a personal journal that you were keeping in 
December 2020 while all of this was taking place.
    With your permission, I am wondering if you would be 
willing to share one passage in particular with us?
    Mr. Bowers. Thank you very much.
    ``It is painful to have friends who have been such a help 
to me turn on me with such rancor. I may, in the eyes of men, 
not hold correct opinions or act according to their vision or 
convictions, but I do not take this current situation in a 
light manner, a fearful manner, or a vengeful manner. I do not 
want to be a winner by cheating.
    ``I will not play with laws I swore allegiance to, with any 
contrived desire toward deflection of my deep foundational 
desire to follow God's will as I believe He led my conscience 
to embrace. How else will I ever approach Him in the wilderness 
of life, knowing that I ask of this guidance only to show 
myself a coward in defending the course He led me to take?''
    Mr. Schiff. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Those are powerful 
words.
    I understand that taking the courageous positions that you 
did following the 2020 election in defense of the rule of law 
and protecting the voters of Arizona resulted in you and your 
family being subjected to protests and terrible threats.
    Can you tell us how this impacted you and your family?
    Mr. Bowers. Well, as others in the videos have mentioned, 
we received, my secretaries would say, in excess of 20,000 
emails and tens of thousands of voicemails and texts, which 
saturated our offices, and we were unable to work, or at least 
communicate.
    But at home, up till even recently, it is the new pattern, 
or a pattern, in our lives to worry what will happen on 
Saturdays, because we have various groups come by, and they 
have had video-panel trucks with videos of me proclaiming me to 
be a pedophile and a pervert and a corrupt politician, and 
blaring loudspeakers in my neighborhood, and leaving literature 
both on my property and arguing and threatening with neighbors 
and with myself.
    I don't know if I should name groups, but there was one 
gentleman that had the three bars on his chest, and he had a 
pistol and was threatening at my neighbor--not with the pistol 
but just vocally. When I saw the gun, I knew I had to get 
close.
    At the same time, on some of these, we had a daughter who 
was gravely ill, who was upset by what was happening outside. 
And my wife is a valiant person, very, very strong, quiet, very 
strong woman.
    So, it was disturbing. It was disturbing.
    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank you for your 
service to the State of Arizona and to the country.
    Mr. Chairman, at this point, I think it would be 
appropriate to take a short recess. Accordingly, I reserve the 
balance of my time.
    Chairman Thompson. The Chair requests that those in the 
hearing room remain seated until the Capitol Police have 
escorted Members and witnesses from the room.
    Pursuant to the order of the Committee of today, the Chair 
declares the Committee in recess for a period of approximately 
10 minutes.
    [Accordingly, at 2:11 p.m., the Committee recessed until 
2:25 p.m., when it was called to order by the Chairman.]
    Chairman Thompson. President Trump's pressure campaign 
against State officials existed in all the key battleground 
States that he lost, but the former President had a particular 
obsession with Georgia.
    Here is the President on the afternoon of January 6th after 
his own Attorney General warned him that the claims you are 
about to hear are patently false.

    President Trump. They should find those votes. They should 
absolutely find that. Just over 11,000 votes, that's all we need. They 
defrauded us out of a win in Georgia, and we're not going to forget it.

    Chairman Thompson. So, the State of Georgia is where we 
will turn our attention to next.
    I want to emphasize that our investigation into these 
issues is still on-going. As I stated in our last hearing, if 
you have relevant information or documentary evidence to share 
with the Select Committee, we welcome your cooperation. But we 
will share some of our findings with you today.
    Secretary Raffensperger, thank you for being here today.
    You have been a public servant in Georgia since 2015, 
serving first as a member of the Georgia House of 
Representatives and then, since January 2019, as Georgia's 
secretary of state.
    As a self-described conservative Republican, is it fair to 
say that you wanted President Trump to win the 2020 election?
    Mr. Raffensperger. Yes, it is.
    Chairman Thompson. Mr. Secretary, many witnesses have told 
the Select Committee that election day, November 3, 2020, was a 
largely uneventful day in their home States.
    In spite of the challenges of conducting an election during 
a pandemic, you wrote in The Washington Post that the election 
was ``successful.''
    Tell us, what was your impression of how election day had 
proceeded in Georgia?
    Mr. Raffensperger. On election day in November, our 
election went remarkably smooth.
    In fact, we meet at the GEMA headquarters--that is the 
Georgia Emergency Management Association meeting location--but 
we were following wait times in line. In the afternoon, our 
average wait time was 3 minutes State-wide that we were 
recording for various precincts. It actually got down to 2 
minutes.
    At the end of the day, we felt that we had a successful 
election from the standpoint of the administration and the 
operation of the election.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. 
Schiff.
    Mr. Schiff. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Secretary Raffensperger, did Joe Biden win the 2020 
Presidential election in Georgia and by what margin?
    Mr. Raffensperger. President Biden carried the State of 
Georgia by approximately 12,000 votes.
    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Secretary, as I understand it, your office 
took several steps to ensure the accuracy of the vote count in 
Georgia, reviewing the vote count in at least three different 
ways. These steps included a machine recount, a forensic audit, 
and full hand recount of every one of the 5 million ballots 
cast.
    Did these efforts, including a recount of literally every 
ballot cast in the State of Georgia, confirm the result?
    Mr. Raffensperger. Yes, they did.
    We counted the ballots where the first tabulation would be 
scanned.
    Then, when we did our 100 percent hand audit of all 5 
million ballots in the State of Georgia--all cast in place, all 
absentee ballots--they were all hand recounted, and they came 
remarkably close to the first count.
    Then, upon the election being certified, President Trump, 
because he was within a half-percent, could ask for a recount. 
Then we recounted them again through the scanners, and we got 
remarkably the same count.
    Three counts, all remarkably close, which showed that 
President Trump did come up short.
    Mr. Schiff. Nevertheless, as you will see, the President 
and his allies began making numerous false allegations of voter 
fraud--false allegations that you and Mr. Sterling, among 
others, had to address.
    Mr. Sterling, thank you also for being here today.
    Following the 2020 election, in addition to your normal 
duties, I understand that you became a spokesperson to try to 
combat disinformation about the election and the danger it was 
creating for elections officials, among others.
    In a December 1 press conference, you addressed some of 
your remarks directly to President Trump. Let's take a look at 
what you said that day.

    Mr. Sterling. Mr. President, it looks like you likely lost the 
State of Georgia. We're investigating. There's always a possibility--I 
get it, and you have the rights to go to the courts. What you don't 
have the ability to do, and you need to step up and say this, is stop 
inspiring people to commit potential acts of violence.
    Someone's going to get hurt, someone's going to get shot, someone's 
going to get killed, and it's not right. I--I--it's not right.

    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Sterling, what prompted you to make these 
remarks?
    Mr. Sterling. Mr. Schiff, we had had a previously scheduled 
press conference that day, as we were in the habit of doing, 
trying to be as transparent as we could about the election and 
the counts going on.
    A little after lunch that day, lunchtime, I received a call 
from the project manager from Dominion Voting Systems, who was 
oddly audibly shaken. She is not the kind of person I would 
assume would be that way. She has a master's from MIT, a 
graduate of the Naval Academy, and was very much on the ball 
and pretty unflappable.
    She informed me about a young contractor they had who had 
been receiving threats from a video had been posted by some 
QAnon supporters. At that point, we had been sort-of steeping 
in this kind of stuff, so it was around us all the time, so I 
didn't take note of it more than adding to the pile of other 
stuff we were having to deal with.
    I did pull up Twitter, and I scrolled through it, and I saw 
the young man's name. It was a particular tweet that, for lack 
of a better word, was the straw that broke the camel's back. It 
had a young man's name. It was a very unique name. I believe it 
was a first-generation American. It said--had his name--``You 
committed treason. May God have mercy on your soul,'' with a 
slowly twisting GIF of a noose.
    For lack of a better word, I lost it. I just got irate. My 
boss was with me at the time, Deputy Secretary Jordan Fuchs, 
and she could tell that I was angry. I tend to turn red from 
here up when that happens, and that happened at that time. She 
called Secretary Raffensperger to say, ``We are seeing these 
kind of threats, and Gabe thinks we need to say something about 
it.'' The Secretary said, ``Yes.''
    That is what prompted me to do what I did. I lost my 
temper, but it seemed necessary at the time, because it was 
just getting worse. I could not tell you why that particular 
one was the one that put me over the edge, but it did.
    Mr. Schiff. Now, after you made this plea to the President, 
did Donald Trump urge his supporters to avoid the use of 
violence?
    Mr. Sterling. Not to my knowledge.
    Mr. Schiff. Now, as we know, the President was aware of 
your speech, because he tweeted about it later that day. Let's 
take a look at what the President said.
    In the tweet, Donald Trump claims that there was, ``massive 
voter fraud in Georgia.''
    Mr. Sterling, that was just plain false, wasn't it?
    Mr. Sterling. Yes, sir.
    Mr. Schiff. Nevertheless, the very next day, on December 
2nd, President Trump released a lengthy video again making 
false claims of election fraud in Georgia.
    Let's take a look at what he said this time.

    President Trump. They found thousands and thousands of votes that 
were out of whack--all against me.

    Mr. Schiff. In fact, the day after Donald Trump released 
that video--so, now we are talking just 2 days after the 
emotional warning that you gave that someone is going to get 
killed--representatives of President Trump appeared in Georgia, 
including Rudy Giuliani, and launched a new conspiracy theory 
that would take on a life of its own and threaten the lives of 
several innocent election workers.
    This story falsely alleges that, sometime during election 
night, election workers at the State Farm Arena in Atlanta, 
Georgia, kicked out poll observers. After the observers left, 
the story goes, these workers pulled so-called ``suitcases of 
ballots'' from under a table and ran those ballots through 
counting machines multiple times.
    Completely without evidence, President Trump and his allies 
claimed that these suitcases contained as many as 18,000 
ballots, all for Joe Biden.
    None of this was true.
    But Rudy Giuliani appeared before a committee of the 
Georgia State Senate and played a surveillance video from State 
Farm Arena, falsely claiming that it showed this conspiracy 
taking place.
    Here is sample of what Mr. Giuliani had to say during that 
hearing.

    Mr. Giuliani. And when you look at what you saw on the video, which 
to me was a smoking gun, powerful smoking gun, well, I don't--don't 
have to be a genius to figure out what happened. And I--I don't have to 
be a genius to figure out that those votes are not legitimate votes. 
You don't put legitimate votes under a table----
    Voice. No.
    Mr. Giuliani [continuing]. Wait until you throw the opposition out 
and, in the middle of the night, count them. We would have to be fools 
to think that.

    Mr. Schiff. President Trump's campaign amplified Giuliani's 
false testimony in a tweet pushing out the video footage.
    Giuliani likewise pushed out his testimony on social media. 
As you can see in this tweet, Mr. Giuliani wrote that it was, 
``now beyond doubt,'' that Fulton County Democrats had stolen 
the election.
    Later in this hearing, we will hear directly from one of 
the election workers in this video about the effect these lies 
had on her and on her family.
    Mr. Sterling, did the investigators in your office review 
the entire surveillance tape from the State Farm Arena on 
election night?
    Mr. Sterling. They actually reviewed approximately 48 
hours, going over the time period where action was taking place 
at the counting center at State Farm Arena.
    Mr. Schiff. What did the tape actually show?
    Mr. Sterling. Depending on which time you want to start--
because, as was mentioned, this conspiracy theory took on a 
life of its own, where they conflated a water main break that 
wasn't a water main break, and throwing observers out, and a 
series of other things.
    What it actually showed was Fulton County election workers 
engaging in normal ballot processing.
    One of the specific things--one of the things that was very 
frustrating was the so-called ``suitcases of ballots'' from 
under the table. If you watched the entirety of the video, you 
saw that these were election workers who were under the 
impression they were going to get to go home around 10, 10:30. 
People are putting on their coats; they are putting ballots 
that are prepared to be scanned into ballot carriers that are 
then sealed with tamper-proof seals so that, you know, they are 
not messed with.
    It is an interesting thing, because you watch all of--there 
are four screens of the video, and, as you are watching it, you 
can see the election monitors in the corner with the press as 
they are taking these ballot carriers and putting them under 
the table. You see it there. One of the other hidden ones, if 
you looked at the actual tape, was on the outside of the table. 
Just from the camera angle, you couldn't see it originally.
    This goes under the ``no good deed goes unpunished.''
    We were told at--we were at GEMA, as the secretary pointed 
out--and we were told that it looked like they were shutting 
down the Fulton County counting. The secretary expressed some 
displeasure at that because we wanted everybody to keep 
counting so we could get to the results and know what was 
happening.
    So, our elections director called their elections director, 
who was at another election because this was election day; 
there was two different places where ballot things were being 
done by the Fulton County office. So, he called the elections 
director for Fulton, then called Ralph Jones, who was at the 
State Farm Arena, and said, ``What the heck are you doing? Go 
ahead and stay.''
    As you watch the video itself, you see him take the phone 
call as people are putting things away and getting ready to 
leave. You can tell, for about 15, 20 seconds, he does not want 
to tell these people they have to stay. He walks over, he 
thinks about it for a second, you see him come back to the 
corner of a desk and kind-of slumps his shoulders and says, 
``Okay, y'all, we gotta keep on counting.'' Then you see them 
take their coats off, get the ballots out.
    Then a secondary thing that you will see on there is, you 
will have people who are counting ballots who, a batch will go 
through, they will take them off and run that through again.
    What happens there is a standard operating procedure if 
there is a mis-scan, if there is a misalignment, if it doesn't 
read right. These are high-speed, high-capacity scanners, so 3 
or 4 will go through. After a mis-scan, you have to delete that 
batch and put it back through again.
    By going through the hand tally, as the secretary pointed 
out, we showed that if there had been multiple ballots scanned 
without a corresponding physical ballot, your counts would have 
been a lot higher than the ballots themselves.
    By doing the hand tally, we saw two specific numbers that 
were met. The hand tally got us to a .1053 percent off of the 
total votes cast and .0099 percent on the margin, which is 
essentially dead-on accurate. Most academic studies say on a 
hand tally you will have between 1 and 2 percent, but because 
we use ballot-marking devices, where it is very clear what the 
voter intended, it made it a lot easier for us to conduct that 
hand count and show that none of that was true.
    Mr. Schiff. Now, I understand that when you reviewed these 
tapes and did the analysis, it disproved this conspiracy 
theory, but you still had to take a lot of steps to try to make 
sure the public knew the truth about these allegations, and you 
did frequent briefings for the press.
    Let's take a look at one of those press briefings, Mr. 
Sterling, that you held on December 7th to make the point that 
you just did today.

    Mr. Sterling.  . . . move on to what I'm going to call, 
``Disinformation Monday.'' Out of the gate, many of you all saw the 
videotape from State Farm Arena. I spent hours with our POST-certified 
investigators. Justin Gray from WSB spent hours with us going over this 
video to explain to people that what you saw--the ``secret suitcases'' 
of magic ballots--were actually ballots that had been packed into those 
absentee ballot carriers by the workers in plain view of the monitors 
and the press . . . 
    And what's really frustrating is the President's attorneys had this 
same videotape. They saw the exact same things the rest of us could 
see. And they chose to mislead State senators and the public about what 
was on that video. I'm quite sure that they will not characterize the 
video if they try to enter into evidence because that is the kind of 
thing that can lead to sanctions because it's obviously untrue.
    They knew it was untrue, and they continue to do things like this.

    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Sterling, despite the efforts by your 
office to combat this misinformation by speaking out publicly 
and through local media, you were unable to match the reach of 
President Trump's platform and social media megaphone spreading 
these false conspiracy theories.
    What was it like to compete with a President who had the 
biggest bully pulpit in the world to push out these false 
claims?
    Mr. Sterling. For lack of a better word, it was 
frustrating. But oftentimes I felt our information was getting 
out but that there was a reticence of people, who needed to 
believe it, to believe it because the President of the United 
States, whom many looked up to and respected, was telling them 
it wasn't true, despite the facts.
    I have characterized it at one point, it was kind-of like a 
shovel trying to empty the ocean. Yes, it was frustrating. I 
even have, you know, family members who I had to argue with 
about some of these things. I would show them things--and the 
problem you have is, you are getting to people's hearts.
    I remember this one specific--an attorney that we know that 
we showed and walked him through: This wasn't true, ``Okay, I 
get that,'' this wasn't true, ``Okay, I get that,'' this wasn't 
true--five or six things, but at the end he goes, ``I just know 
in my heart they cheated.''
    So, once you get past the heart, the facts don't matter as 
much. Our job, from our point of view, was to get the facts 
out, do our job, tell the truth, follow the Constitution, 
follow the law, and defend the institutions. The institutions 
held.
    Mr. Schiff. Let's take a look at what you were competing 
with. This is the former President speaking in Georgia on 
December 5th.

    President Trump. But it's a fraud. It's overwhelming. And again, 
I'm going to ask you to look up at that very, very powerful and very 
expensive screen.
    Voice. Hidden cases of possible ballots are rolled out from under a 
table. Four people under a cloud of suspicion . . . 
    President Trump. So, if you just take the crime of what those 
Democrat workers were doing--and by the way, there was no water main 
break. You know, they said there--there was no water main break. That's 
ten times more than I need to win this State. Ten times more. That's 
ten times, maybe more than that, but it's ten times more because we 
lost by a very close number.

    Mr. Schiff. In this Committee's hearing last Monday, we 
heard from senior Federal law enforcement officials--from the 
senior-most Federal law enforcement official in Atlanta at the 
time, U.S. Attorney for the Northern District BJay Pak, as well 
as former Attorney General Bill Barr. They both testified that 
the allegations were thoroughly investigated and found to have 
no merit.
    Here is U.S. Attorney Pak.

    Mr. Pak. In particular to Attorney General Barr, I told him that we 
looked into it. We've done several things, including interviewing the 
witnesses. I listened to the tapes and reviewed the videotape myself 
and that there was nothing there. Giuliani was wrong in representing 
that this was a suitcase full of ballots.

    Mr. Schiff. Here is what Attorney General Bill Barr had to 
say about the same allegations.

    Attorney General Barr. Took a look--hard look--at this ourselves. 
And based on our review of it, including the interviews of the key 
witnesses, the Fulton County allegations were--had no merit.

    Mr. Schiff. We also have testimony from senior Department 
of Justice officials establishing that they specifically told 
President Trump that these allegations had been thoroughly 
investigated and were completely without merit.
    Here is Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue 
describing a phone conversation in which he specifically told 
President Trump that these allegations were false.

    Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue. The President kept 
fixating on this suitcase that supposedly had fraudulent ballots and 
that the suitcase was rolled out from under the table. And I said, 
``No, sir. There is no suitcase. You can watch that video over and 
over. There is no suitcase. There is a wheeled bin where they carry the 
ballots.''

    Mr. Schiff. `` . . . where they carry the ballots.''
    No matter how many times senior Department of Justice 
officials, including his own Attorney General, told the 
President that these allegations were not true, President Trump 
kept promoting these lies and putting pressure on State 
officials to accept them.
    On January 2nd, the President had a lengthy telephone 
conversation with Secretary Raffensperger. Prior to the 
President's call, though, I want to share a bit of important 
context.
    First, the White House, including the former President's 
Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, repeatedly called or texted the 
secretary's office some 18 times in order to set up this call. 
They were quite persistent.
    Second, Chief of Staff Mark Meadows took the extraordinary 
step of showing up at a signature audit site in Georgia, where 
he met with Secretary Raffensperger's chief investigator, 
Frances Watson, who was supervising that audit process.
    Behind me is a photograph from that visit.
    Third, the day after Meadows's Georgia visit, he set up a 
call between President Trump and Frances Watson. On the call 
between President Trump and Georgia investigator Frances 
Watson, the former President continued to push the false claim 
that he had won the State of Georgia.
    Let's listen to that part of the conversation.

    President Trump. You know, it's just--you have the most important 
job in the country right now, because if we win Georgia--first of all, 
if we win, you're gonna have two wins. They're not going to win right 
now, you know. They're down because the people of Georgia are so angry 
at what happened to me. They know I won--won by hundreds of thousands 
of votes. It wasn't close.

    Mr. Schiff. In this next clip, he told the State law 
enforcement official that she would be praised if she found the 
``right answer.''

    President Trump. Hopefully, you know, I will--when--when the right 
answer comes out, you'll be praised. I mean, I don't know why, you 
know, they made it so hard. And you--they will be praised. People will 
say, ``Great,'' because that's what it's about: That ability to check 
and to--and to make it right. Because everyone knows it's wrong. 
There's just no way.

    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Raffensperger, I know you weren't on this 
call but that you have listened to it. President Trump didn't 
win by hundreds of thousands of votes in Georgia, did he?
    Mr. Raffensperger. No, he did not.
    I have been traveling through the State of Georgia for a 
year now, and, simply put, in a nutshell, what happened in the 
fall of 2020 is that 28,000 Georgians skipped the Presidential 
race and yet they voted down-ballot in other races. The 
Republican Congressmen ended up getting 33,000 more votes than 
President Trump. That is why President Trump came up short.
    Mr. Schiff. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
    The President, on this call, doesn't stop here. Let's 
listen to another part of the conversation between President 
Trump and Ms. Watson.

    President Trump. Anyway, but whatever you can do, Frances, it would 
be--it's a great thing. It's an important thing for the country. So 
important. You have no idea, it's so important----
    Ms. Watson. Well, Mr.----
    President Trump [continuing]. And I very much appreciate it.

    Mr. Schiff. ``Whatever you can do, Frances.'' This is the 
President of the United States calling an investigator looking 
into the election in which he is a candidate and asking her to 
do ``whatever you can do.''
    Mr. Secretary, he placed this call to your chief 
investigator on December 23, 2020. The Select Committee has 
received text messages indicating that Mark Meadows wanted to 
send some of the investigators in her office, in the words of 
one White House aide, ``a shitload of POTUS stuff,'' including 
``coins, actual autographed MAGA hats, et cetera.'' White House 
staff intervened to make sure that didn't happen.
    It was clear at the time of this call that the former 
President had his sights set on January 6th. Listen to this 
portion, when he told Frances Watson about a ``very important 
date.''

    President Trump. Do you think you'll be working after Christmas to 
keep it going fast? Because, you know, we have that date of the 6th, 
which is a very important date.

    Mr. Schiff. That important date, of course, was the joint 
session of Congress, where Georgia's electoral votes would be 
counted for Joe Biden.
    A little over a week after this call to Frances Watson, the 
President was finally able to speak with you, Secretary 
Raffensperger.
    Bear in mind as we discuss this call today that, by this 
point in time, early January, the election in Georgia had 
already been certified, but, perhaps more important, the 
President of the United States had already been told repeatedly 
by his own top Justice Department officials that the claims he 
was about to make to you about massive fraud in Georgia were 
completely false.
    Mr. Secretary, the call between you and the President 
lasted 67 minutes--over an hour. We obviously can't listen to 
the entire recording here today, although it is available on 
the Select Committee's website. But we will listen to selected 
excerpts of it now so that we can get your insights.
    Let's begin with the President raising the thoroughly 
debunked allegations of suitcases of ballots.

    President Trump. They weren't in an official voter box. They were 
in what looked to be suitcases or trunks, suitcases, but they weren't 
in--in voter boxes.
    The minimum number it could be, because we watched it and they--
they watched it and certified in slow motion, instant replay, if you 
can believe it. But it had slow motion, and it was magnified many times 
over. And the minimum it was, was 18,000 ballots, all for Biden.

    Mr. Schiff. These are the allegations that the Department 
of Justice, the Attorney General, the Georgia Bureau of 
Investigation, and your office had all said were false. Is that 
right?
    Mr. Raffensperger. Correct.
    Even more importantly, when BJay Pak resigned as U.S. 
attorney of the Northern District, President Trump appointed as 
acting U.S. attorney of the Northern District Bobby Christine. 
Bobby Christine looked at that, and he was quoted in the AJC 
that he found nothing, and he dismissed that case early also.
    Mr. Schiff. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
    The President references suitcases or trunks. Mr. Sterling, 
were the objects seen in these videos suitcases or trunks, or 
were they just the ordinary containers that are used by 
election workers?
    Mr. Sterling. They are standard ballot carriers that allow 
for seals to be put on them so they are tamper-proof.
    Mr. Schiff. Finally, the President claims that there was a 
minimum of 18,000 ballots somehow smuggled in, all for Biden. I 
take it, gentlemen, that was also categorically false?
    Mr. Sterling. (A), there is no physical way you can know 
who those ballots are for.
    But, secondarily, Fulton County for years has been an issue 
in our State when it comes to elections. They had a very 
difficult time during the primary, in large part because of 
COVID. So, we had put them under a consent decree the secretary 
negotiated where we had a monitor on-site, and his name is 
Carter Jones.
    He took a notation. He had gone from State Farm to the 
English Street warehouse to look at election day activities, 
but before he left the State Farm Arena, he noted how many 
ballots had been counted on each one of the machines. When he 
came back after we found out they were working again, he took 
note again when they closed.
    I believe the final number was something around 8,900 total 
ballots were scanned from the time he left to the time--about 
12:30 or 1 o'clock in the morning, so way below 18,000.
    Mr. Schiff. Let's play the next clip.

    President Trump. I heard it was close, so I said, ``There's no 
way.'' But they dropped a lot of votes in there late at night. You know 
that, Brad.

    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Secretary, did somebody drop a lot of votes 
there late at night?
    Mr. Raffensperger. No. I believe that the President was 
referring to some of the counties when they would upload. But 
the ballots had all been accepted, and had to be accepted by 
State law, by 7 p.m. So, there were no additional ballots 
accepted after 7 p.m.
    Mr. Schiff. Let's play the next clip, in which the 
President makes claims about so-called ``dead voters.''

    President Trump. The other thing, dead people. So, dead people 
voted. And I think the--the number is close to 5,000 people. And they 
went to obituaries. They went to all sorts of methods to come up with 
an accurate number. And a minimum is close to about 5,000 voters.

    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Secretary, did your office investigate 
whether those allegations were accurate? Did 5,000 dead people 
in Georgia vote?
    Mr. Raffensperger. No, it is not accurate. Actually, in 
their lawsuits, they allege 10,315 dead people.
    We had found 2 dead people when I wrote my letter to 
Congress that is dated January 6th, and subsequent to that we 
found 2 more. That is--1, 2, 3--4 people, not 4,000, but just a 
total of 4, not 10,000, not 5,000.
    Mr. Schiff. Let's play the next clip.

    President Trump. And there's nothing wrong with saying that, you 
know, that you've recalculated because it's 2,236 in absentee ballots. 
I mean, they're all exact numbers that were--were done by accounting 
firms, law firms, et cetera. And even if you cut them in half, cut them 
in half, and cut them in half again, it's more votes than we need.

    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Secretary, is there any way that you could 
have lawfully changed the result in the State of Georgia and 
somehow explained it away as a recalculation?
    Mr. Raffensperger. No. The numbers are the numbers, and 
numbers don't lie.
    We had many allegations, and we investigated every single 
one of them. In fact, I challenged my team, did we miss 
anything?
    They said that there was over 66,000 underage voters. We 
found that there was actually zero. You can register to vote in 
Georgia when you are 17\1/2\. You have to be 18 by election 
day. We checked that out, every single voter.
    They said that there was 2,423 nonregistered voters. There 
were zero.
    They said that there was 2,056 felons. We identified less 
than 74 or less that were actually still on felony sentence.
    Every single allegation we checked, we ran down the rabbit 
trail to make sure that our numbers were accurate.
    Mr. Schiff. So, there is no way you could have recalculated 
except by fudging the numbers?
    Mr. Raffensperger. The numbers were the numbers. We could 
not recalculate because we had made sure that we had checked 
every single allegation. We had many investigations; we had 
nearly 300 from the 2020 election.
    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Secretary, you tried to push back when the 
President made these unsupported claims, whether they were 
about suitcases or ballots or that Biden votes were counted 
three times.
    Let's play the next clip.

    Secretary of State Raffensperger. Mr. President, they did not put 
that. We--we--we did an audit of that, and we proved conclusively that 
they were not scanned three times . . . 
    Yes, Mr. President, we'll send you the link from WSB----
    President Trump. I don't care about a link. I don't need it. I have 
a much better--we're gonna have a much better link.

    Mr. Schiff. You told the President you would send him a 
link from WSB, which I understand is a local television station 
that had an unedited video from the State Farm Arena, but the 
President wasn't interested in that. He said he had a ``much 
better link.''
    Mr. Secretary, at the time that you were on the call with 
the President, as we have shown, both the FBI and the Georgia 
Bureau of Investigation had proven these claims to be nonsense. 
You told him about these investigations on the phone.
    Let's listen to what President Trump had to say about the 
State and Federal law enforcement officers who investigated 
these false claims.

    President Trump. There's no way they could--then they're 
incompetent. They're either dishonest----
    Ms. Mitchell. Well, what did they find?
    President Trump. Then there's only two answers: dishonesty or 
incompetence. There's just no way. Look, there's no way.

    Mr. Schiff. But the President didn't stop at insinuating 
that law enforcement officers were either dishonest or 
incompetent. He went on to suggest that you could be subject to 
criminal liability for your role in the matter.
    Before I play that portion of the conversation, I would 
like to show you something that the President retweeted a 
couple weeks before your call with him.
    Here is the President retweeting a post from one of his 
allies, a lawyer who was later sanctioned by a judge in 
Michigan for making false claims of election fraud. Let's take 
a look at that tweet.
    The tweet read, ``President Trump @realDonaldTrump is a 
genuinely good man. He does not really like to fire people. I 
bet he dislikes putting people in jail, especially 
``Republicans.'' He gave @BrianKempGA & @GASecofState every 
chance to get it right. They refused. They will soon be going 
to jail.''
    So, on your call, this was not the first time the President 
was suggesting you might be criminally liable. With that, let's 
listen to this portion of the call.

    President Trump. I think you're going to find that they are 
shredding ballots because they have to get rid of the ballots because 
the ballots are unsigned, the ballots are--are corrupt, and they're 
brand-new and they don't have seals and there's a whole thing with the 
ballots. But the ballots are corrupt and you're going to find that they 
are--which is totally illegal.
    It's--it's more illegal for you than it is for them because you 
know what they did, and you're not reporting it. That's a--you know, 
that's a criminal--that's a criminal offense. And you know, you can't 
let that happen. That's--that's a big risk to you and to Ryan, your 
lawyer. And that's a big risk.

    Mr. Schiff. Secretary Raffensperger, after making a false 
claim about shredding of ballots, the President suggested that 
you may be committing a crime by not going along with his 
claims of election fraud.
    After suggesting that you might have criminal exposure, 
President Trump makes his most explicit ask of the call. Let's 
play a part of that conversation.

    President Trump. So, look, all I want to do is this: I just want to 
find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have because we won the 
State.

    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Secretary, was the President here asking 
you for exactly what he wanted--one more vote than his 
opponent?
    Mr. Raffensperger. What I knew is that we didn't have any 
votes to find. We had continued to look. We investigated, like 
I just shared the numbers with you. There were no votes to 
find. That was an accurate count that had been certified. As 
our general counsel said, there was no shredding of ballots.
    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Secretary, after making this request, the 
President then goes back to the danger of having you deny these 
allegations of fraud.
    Let's listen to that part of the clip.

    President Trump. And I watched you this morning and you said, 
``Well, there was no criminality,'' but I mean, all of this stuff is--
is very dangerous stuff. When you talk about ``no criminality,'' I 
think it's very dangerous for you to say that.

    Mr. Schiff. Secretary Raffensperger, you wrote about this 
in your book, and you said, ``I felt then and still believe 
today that this was a threat. Others obviously thought so, too, 
because some of Trump's more radical followers have responded 
as if it was their duty to carry out this threat.''
    Please tell us what you, your wife, even your daughter-in-
law experienced regarding threats from Trump's more radical 
followers.
    Mr. Raffensperger. Well, after the election, my email, my 
cell phone was doxxed, and so I was getting texts all over the 
country. Then eventually my wife started getting a text, and 
hers typically came in as sexualized texts, which were 
disgusting.
    You have to understand that Trish and I, we met in high 
school. We have been married over 40 years now. So, they 
started going after her, I think, just to probably put pressure 
on me: ``Why don't you just quit; walk away?'' So, that 
happened.
    Then some people broke into my daughter-in-law's home. My 
son has passed, and she is a widow and has two kids. So, we are 
very concerned about her safety also.
    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Secretary, why didn't you just quit and 
walk away?
    Mr. Raffensperger. Because I knew that we had followed the 
law and we had followed the Constitution. I think sometimes 
moments require you to stand up and just take the shots. You 
are doing your job. That is all we did.
    You know, we just followed the law, and we followed the 
Constitution, and, at the end of the day, President Trump came 
up short. But I had to be faithful to the Constitution. That is 
what I swore an oath to do.
    Mr. Schiff. During the remainder of the call, the former 
President continued to press you to find the remaining votes 
that would ensure his victory in Georgia. Let's listen to a 
little more.

    President Trump. Why wouldn't you want to find the right answer, 
Brad, instead of keep saying that the numbers are right?
    So, look, can you get together tomorrow? And Brad, we just want the 
truth. It's simple. And--and everyone's going to look very good if the 
truth comes out. It's okay. It takes a little while, but let the truth 
come out. And the truth--the real truth is, I won by 400,000 votes, at 
least.
    So--so what are we going to do here, folks? I only need 11,000 
votes. Fellas, I need 11,000 votes. Give me a break.

    Mr. Schiff. Four days after the President's call to 
Secretary Raffensperger was January 6th. The President whipped 
up the crowd in front of the Ellipse, once again promoting the 
allegation that Secretary Raffensperger and the President's own 
Attorney General had told him was false.
    Here he is on the Ellipse.

    President Trump. In Fulton County, Republican poll watchers were 
ejected, in some cases physically, from the room under the false 
pretense of a pipe burst--water main burst. Everybody leave. Which we 
now know was a total lie. Then election officials pulled boxes--
Democrats--and suitcases of ballots out from under a table--you all it 
saw on television--totally fraudulent, and illegally scanned them for 
nearly 2 hours, totally unsupervised. Tens of thousands of votes. This 
act coincided with a mysterious vote dump of up to 100,000 votes for 
Joe Biden, almost none for Trump. Oh, that sounds fair. That was at 
1:34 a.m.

    Mr. Schiff. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Sterling, I want to thank 
you for your service to the State of Georgia and to the 
country.
    Speaker Bowers, likewise, I want to thank you for your 
service to the State of Arizona and to the country.
    You have served not only your home States but our Nation 
and our democracy.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you, Mr. Schiff.
    I thank the witnesses for joining us today. You are now 
dismissed.
    I now welcome our final witness this afternoon, Wandrea 
``Shaye'' Moss.
    Ms. Moss worked in the Department of Registration and 
Elections in Fulton County, Georgia, from 2017 until 2022. In 
that job, Ms. Moss handled voter applications and absentee-
ballot requests and also helped to process the vote count for 
several elections.
    In December 2020, Ms. Moss and her mother, Ms. Ruby 
Freeman, became the target of nasty lies spread by President 
Trump and his allies as they sought to overturn the election 
results in Georgia.
    Ms. Moss and her mother, Ms. Freeman, are two of the unsung 
heroes in this country, doing the hard work of keeping our 
democracy functioning for every American.
    Ms. Moss, welcome. Thank you for your service, and I thank 
you for being here today.
    I will now swear you in. Please stand.
    [Witness sworn.]
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you. Please be seated.
    Let the record reflect that the witness answered in the 
affirmative.
    Ms. Moss, thank you very much for being here today.
    I understand that you are here along with your mother 
today. Would you like to introduce your mama?
    Ms. Moss. Yes. My mama.
    Chairman Thompson. Hi, ma.
    Ms. Moss, today we will be asking you about some of the 
threats that you received following the 2020 election.
    Since you have been an election worker for over 10 years, I 
wanted to ask you, in your decade of service, had you ever 
experienced threats like these before?
    Ms. Moss. No.
    Chairman Thompson. Don't be nervous. Just--I understand.
    So--and I want to make sure that the record reflects that 
you have done it for quite a while and you have never received 
a threat and your answer was, ``No.''
    Ms. Moss. Correct.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you.
    Pursuant to section 5(c)(8) of House Resolution 503, the 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. Schiff, for 
questions.
    Mr. Schiff. Good afternoon, Ms. Moss. Thank you for being 
here.
    I understand that you were employed by the Fulton County 
Registration and Elections Department for more than 10 years, 
and I understand that you loved that job.
    Please tell us what made you so fond of the work that you 
did.
    Ms. Moss. Well, I have always been told by my grandmother 
how important it is to vote and how people before me, a lot of 
people, older people in my family did not have that right.
    So, what I loved most about my job were the older voters. 
Younger people could usually do everything from their phone or 
go on-line, but the older voters like to call, they like to 
talk to you, they like to get my card, they like to know that 
every election I am here.
    Like, even college students. A lot of parents trust in me 
to make sure their child does not have to drive home. They will 
get an absentee ballot; they can vote.
    I really found pleasure in that. I liked being the one 
that--you know, if someone can't navigate My Voter Page or, you 
know, they want a new precinct card and they don't have a copy 
machine or a computer or all of that, I could put it in the 
mail for them.
    I was excited always about sending out all the absentee 
ballots for the elderly, disabled people. I even remember 
driving to a hospital to give someone her absentee application. 
That is what I loved the most.
    Mr. Schiff. So, you really enjoyed helping people vote and 
participate, and that was something, the right to vote, that 
your grandmother taught you was precious.
    Ms. Moss. Yes.
    Mr. Schiff. Well, I know the events that we are here to 
talk about today are incredibly difficult to relive.
    Your proud service as an election worker took a dramatic 
turn on the day that Rudy Giuliani publicized a video of you 
and your mother counting ballots on election night.
    President Trump, Rudy Giuliani, and others claimed, on the 
basis of this video, that you and your mother were somehow 
involved in a plot to kick out observers, bring suitcases of 
false ballots for Biden into the arena, and then run them 
through the machines multiple times.
    None of that was true, was it?
    Ms. Moss. None of it.
    Mr. Schiff. I would like to show you some of the statements 
that Rudy Giuliani made in a second hearing before the Georgia 
State legislators a week after that video clip from State Farm 
Arena was first circulated by Mr. Giuliani and President Trump.
    I want to advise viewers that these statements are 
completely false and also deeply disturbing.

    Mr. Giuliani. Tape earlier in the day of Ruby Freeman and Shaye 
Freeman Moss and one other gentleman quite obviously surreptitiously 
passing around USB ports as if they are vials of heroin or cocaine. I 
mean, it's our--it's obvious to anyone who's a criminal investigator or 
prosecutor they are engaged in surreptitious illegal activity again 
that day, and that's a week ago, and they're still walking around 
Georgia lying.
    They should have been--they should have been--should have been 
questioned already. Their places of work, their homes, should have been 
searched for evidence of ballots, for evidence of USB ports, for 
evidence of voter fraud.

    Mr. Schiff. That video was from Rudy Giuliani's appearance 
at a Georgia State house hearing on December 10.
    How did you become aware--how did you first become aware 
that Rudy Giuliani, the President's lawyer, was accusing you 
and your mother of a crime?
    Ms. Moss. I was at work, like always. The former chief, Mr. 
Jones, asked me to come to his office. When I went to his 
office, the former director, Mr. Barron, was in there, and they 
showed me a video on their computer.
    It was just, like, a very short clip of us working at State 
Farm. It had someone on the video, like, talking over the 
video, just saying that we were doing things that we weren't 
supposed to do, just lying throughout the video.
    That is when I first found out about it.
    Mr. Schiff. Were there social media posts that they showed 
you responding to those false claims?
    Ms. Moss. Well, when I saw the video, of course the first 
thing that I said was, like, ``Why? Why are they doing this? 
What's going on?''
    They, you know, just told me that Trump and his allies were 
not satisfied with the outcome of the election, and they were 
getting a lot of threats and being harassed on-line, and asked 
me, you know, have I been receiving anything, and I need to 
check on my mom.
    I told them--you know, I was like, ``Where? Where have 
they--you know, where have you been getting these threats? I 
don't believe I have any.'' Mr. Jones told me, like, they are 
attacking his Facebook. I don't really use Facebook. I have 
one. So, I went to the Facebook app.
    I am just kind-of panicky at this point because this has 
never happened to me, and my mom is involved. I am, like, her 
only child.
    So, I am just asking him, like, ``Well, where are the 
messages? All I see is the feed. Like, how do you get to the 
messages?'' He said, ``It's another icon on your phone that 
says Messenger.''
    I went to that icon, and it was just a lot of horrible 
things there.
    Mr. Schiff. Those horrible things, did they include 
threats?
    Ms. Moss. Yes, a lot of threats, wishing death upon me, 
telling me that, you know, I will be in jail with my mother, 
and saying things like, ``Be glad it's 2020 and not 1920.'' 
That is--yes.
    Mr. Schiff. Were a lot of these threats and vile comments 
racist in nature?
    Ms. Moss. A lot of them were racist. A lot of them were 
just hateful. But, yes, sir.
    Mr. Schiff. In one of the videos we just watched, Mr. 
Giuliani accused you and your mother of passing some sort of 
USB drive to each other. What was your mom actually handing you 
on that video?
    Ms. Moss. A ginger mint.
    Mr. Schiff. It wasn't just Rudy Giuliani; we heard 
President Trump make these false allegations repeatedly during 
his call with Secretary Raffensperger.
    Let's listen to a portion of what he had to say about you 
and your mother.

    President Trump. We had at least 18,000. That's on tape. We had 
them counted very painstakingly. 18,000 voters having to do with Ruby 
Freeman. That's--she's a vote scammer, a professional vote scammer and 
hustler.

    Mr. Schiff. Donald Trump attacked you and your mother, 
using her name, 18 times on that call--18 times.
    Ms. Moss, can you describe what you experienced listening 
to former President Trump attack you and your mother in a call 
with the Georgia secretary of state?
    Ms. Moss. I felt horrible. I felt like it was all my fault, 
like if I would have never decided to be an elections worker--
like, I could have done anything else, but that is what I 
decided to do, and now people are lying and spreading rumors 
and lies and attacking my mom. I am her only child. Going to my 
grandmother's house--I am her only grandchild. And my kid. It 
is just--I felt so bad.
    I just felt bad for my mom, and I felt horrible for picking 
this job and being the one that always wants to help and always 
there, never missing out one election. I just felt like it was 
my fault for putting my family in this situation.
    Mr. Schiff. Well, it wasn't your fault.
    Your mother was kind enough to come speak with us earlier. 
Let's listen to her story in her words.

    Ms. Freeman. My name is Ruby Freeman. I've always believed it when 
God says that He'll make your name great, but this is not the way it 
was supposed to be. I could have never imagined the events that 
followed the Presidential election 2020. For my entire professional 
life, I was Lady Ruby. My community in Georgia, where I was born and 
lived my whole life, knew me as Lady Ruby.
    I built my own business around that name, LaRuby's Unique 
Treasures, a pop-up shop catering to ladies with unique fashions. I 
wore a shirt that proudly proclaimed that I was, and I am, Lady Ruby.
    Actually, I had that shirt on--I had that shirt in every color. I 
wore that shirt on election day 2020. I haven't worn it since, and I'll 
never wear it again.
    Now I won't even introduce myself by my name anymore. I get nervous 
when I bump into someone I know in the grocery store who says my name. 
I'm worried about who's listening. I get nervous when I have to give my 
name for food orders. I'm always concerned of who's around me. I've 
lost my name, and I've lost my reputation.
    I've lost my sense of security, all because a group of people, 
starting with Number 45 and his ally, Rudy Giuliani, decided to 
scapegoat me and my daughter Shaye--to push their own lies about how 
the Presidential election was stolen.

    Mr. Schiff. Ms. Moss, how has this experience of being 
targeted by the former President and his allies affected your 
life?
    Ms. Moss. It has turned my life upside down. I no longer 
give out my business cards. I don't transfer calls. I don't 
want anyone knowing my name. I don't want to go anywhere with 
my mom because she might yell my name out over the grocery 
aisle or something. I don't go to the grocery store at all. I 
haven't been anywhere at all. I have gained about 60 pounds.
    I just don't do nothing anymore. I don't want to go 
anywhere. I second-guess everything that I do. It has affected 
my life in a major way, in every way, all because of lies, of 
me doing my job, same thing I have been doing forever.
    Mr. Schiff. Your mother also told the Select Committee 
about how she had to leave her own home for her safety and go 
into hiding after the FBI told her that it would not be safe 
for her there before January 6th and until the inauguration.
    Let's listen to a clip of her story in her own words.

    Ms. Freeman. Around the week of January 6th, the FBI informed me 
that I needed to leave my home for safety. And I left my home for 
safety around that time.
    Ms. Lucier. Understood. How--how long did you stay out, did you, 
you know, remain outside of your home for your own safety?
    Ms. Freeman. I--I stayed away from my home for approximately 2 
months . . . 
    It was horrible. I felt homeless. I felt, you know, I can't 
believe--I can't believe this person has caused this much damage to me 
and my family. To have to leave my home that I've lived there for 21 
years. And, you know, I'm having to have my neighbors watch out for me. 
You know, and I have to go and stay with somebody.
    It was hard. It was horrible.
    Ms. Lucier. And your conversation with the FBI about needing to 
leave your home for your own safety or perhaps recommending it. Do you 
remember was there a specific threat that prompted that or was it the 
accumulation of threats that you had received?
    Ms. Freeman. What prompted it was--was getting ready to--January 
6th was about to come. And they did not want me to be at home because 
of all the threats and everything that I had gotten. They didn't want 
me to be there in fear of, you know, that people were coming to my 
home. And I had a lot of that, so they didn't want me to be there just 
in case something happened.
    I asked, ``How long am I going to have to be gone?'' They said, 
``At least until the inauguration.''

    Mr. Schiff. Ms. Moss, I understand that people once showed 
up at your grandmother's house. Tell us about that experience.
    Ms. Moss. I received a call from my grandmother. This woman 
is my everything. I have never even heard her or seen her cry 
ever in my life. She called me, screaming at the top of her 
lungs, like, ``Shaye, Shaye, oh my God, Shaye,'' just freaking 
me out, saying that there were people at her home, and they, 
you know, they knocked on the door. Of course, she opened it 
and was seeing who was there, who it was. They just started 
pushing their way through, claiming that they were coming in to 
make a citizen's arrest. They needed to find me and my mom; 
they knew we were there. She was just screaming and didn't know 
what to do.
    I wasn't there, so, you know, I just felt so helpless and 
so horrible for her. She was just screaming. I told her to 
close the door; don't open the door for anyone. You know, she's 
a 70-something--I won't say--year-old woman, and she doesn't 
like having restrictions. She wants to answer the door. She 
likes to get her steps in walking around the neighborhood. I 
had to tell her, like: You can't do that. You have to be safe.
    You know, she would tell me that, at night, people would 
just continuously send pizzas over and over to her home, you 
know. They were expecting her to pay for these large amounts of 
pizzas. She went through a lot that she didn't have to. Once 
again, it made me just feel horrible.
    Mr. Schiff. In addition to the personal impact this 
experience has had on you and your family, one of the things 
that I find most disturbing is how these lies discourage long-
time election workers from continuing to do this important 
work. Tell us, if you would, of the other election workers 
shown in that State Farm Arena video and their supervisors, how 
many are still election workers in Fulton County?
    Ms. Moss. There is no permanent election worker or 
supervisor in that video that is still there.
    Mr. Schiff. Did you end up leaving your position as well?
    Ms. Moss. Yes, I left.
    Mr. Schiff. Ms. Moss, I want to thank you for coming in to 
speak with us and to thank you for service to our democracy. 
What we have just played is a truly horrible and appalling 
sample, but just a sample of the things that were said about 
you and your mother following the election.
    I want to say how very sorry I think we all are for what 
you have gone through, and, tragically, you are not alone. 
Other election workers around the country have also been the 
subject of lies and threats. No election worker should be 
subject to such heinous treatment just for doing their job.
    With your permission, I would like to give mother the last 
word.
    Ms. Moss. Yes.
    Mr. Schiff. We are just going to play the tape.

    Ms. Freeman. There is nowhere I feel safe. Nowhere. Do you know how 
it feels to have the President of the United States to target you? The 
President of the United States is supposed to represent every American, 
not to target one. But he targeted me, Lady Rudy, a small business 
owner, a mother, a proud American citizen who stand up to help Fulton 
County run an election in the middle of the pandemic.

    Mr. Schiff. Thank you, Ms. Moss.
    Thank you, Ms. Freeman, or, as America now knows her, Lady 
Ruby, for your service to Fulton County, Georgia, our country, 
and our democracy.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you, Mr. Schiff.
    Ms. Moss.
    Ms. Moss. Yes, sir.
    Chairman Thompson. I want to thank you for sharing with us 
the very troubling story of what you and your mother 
experienced. The harassment of election workers like you for 
simply doing your duty as public servants poses a threat to our 
democratic process.
    Your testimony is an important contribution to the work of 
our Committee and serves as a reminder to all of us that the 
safety of local election officials is vital to ensuring that 
our elections are always free and fair.
    I want to thank our witnesses for joining us today. The 
Members of the Select Committee may have additional questions 
for today's witnesses. We ask that you respond expeditiously in 
writing to those questions.
    Without objection, Members will be permitted 10 business 
days to submit statements for the record, including opening 
remarks and additional questions for the witnesses.
    Without objection, the Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California, Mr. Schiff, for a closing statement.
    Mr. Schiff. For more than 200 years, our democracy has been 
distinguished by the peaceful transfer of power. When an 
American raises their right-hand and takes the Presidential 
oath of office, they are transformed from an ordinary citizen 
into the most powerful person in the world, the President.
    This is an awesome power to acquire. It is even more 
awesome when it is handed on peacefully.
    When George Washington relinquished the Office of the 
Presidency, it set a precedent that served as a beacon for 
other nations struggling against tyranny.
    When Ronald Reagan described it as a kind of miracle in the 
eyes of the world, he was exactly right. Other countries use 
violence to seize and hold power, but not in the United States, 
not in America.
    When Donald Trump used the power of the Presidency to try 
to stay in office after losing the election to Joe Biden, he 
broke that sacred and centuries-old covenant. Whether his 
actions were criminal will ultimately be for others to decide. 
But what he did was without a doubt un-Constitutional. It was 
unpatriotic, and it was fundamentally un-American. When he used 
the power of his Presidency to put the enormous pressure on 
State, local, and local elections officials, and his own Vice 
President, it became downright dangerous. On January 6th, that 
pressure became deadly.
    Ruby Freeman said that the President is supposed to protect 
every American, not target them. She is right. If the most 
powerful person in the world can bring the full weight of the 
Presidency down on an ordinary citizen, who was merely doing 
her job, with a lie as big and heavy as a mountain, who among 
us is safe? None of us is. None of us.
    In city councils and town councils, on school boards and 
election boards, from the Congress to the courts, dedicated 
public servants are leaving their posts because of death 
threats to them and to their families. This is not who we are. 
It must not become who we are.
    Our democracy held because courageous people like those you 
heard from today put their oath to the Constitution above their 
loyalty to one man or to one party. The system held, but 
barely. The question remains, will it hold again?
    If we are able to communicate anything during these 
hearings, I hope it is this: We have been blessed beyond 
measure to live in the world's greatest democracy. That is a 
legacy to be proud of and to cherish, but it is not one to be 
taken for granted. That we have lived in a democracy for more 
than 200 years does not mean we shall do so tomorrow.
    We must reject violence. We must embrace our Constitution 
with the reverence it deserves, take our oath of office and 
duties as citizens seriously, informed by the knowledge of 
right and wrong, and armed with no more than the power of our 
ideas and the truth carry on this venerable experiment in self-
governance.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, the Chair recognizes 
the gentlewoman from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for a closing 
statement.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Lady Ruby and Shaye, thank you for your courage. Thank you 
for your strength. Thank you for being here today. It means so 
much for everyone to hear your story. So, thank you for that.
    We have had tremendous testimony today. We have been 
reminded that we are a Nation of laws. We have been reminded by 
you and by Speaker Bowers and Secretary of State Raffensperger 
and Mr. Sterling that our institutions don't defend themselves; 
individuals do that.
    We are reminded that it takes public servants. It takes 
people who have made a commitment to our system to defend our 
system.
    We also have been reminded what it means to take an oath 
under God to the Constitution, and what it means to defend the 
Constitution. We were reminded by Speaker Bowers that our 
Constitution is indeed a divinely-inspired document.
    So, it has been an honor to spend time with you and with 
our previous witnesses here today.
    To date, more than 30 witnesses called before this 
Committee have not done what you have done but have invoked 
their Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination: Roger 
Stone took the Fifth. General Michael Flynn took the Fifth. 
John Eastman took the Fifth.
    Others, like Steve Bannon and Peter Navarro, simply refuse 
to comply with lawful subpoenas, and they have been indicted.
    Mark Meadows has hidden behind President Trump's claims of 
executive privilege and immunity from subpoenas. We are engaged 
now in litigation with Mr. Meadows.
    The American people in our hearings have heard from Bill 
Barr, Jeff Rosen, Richard Donoghue, and many others who stood 
up and did what is right. They will hear more of that testimony 
soon.
    But the American people have not yet heard from Mr. Trump's 
former White House Counsel, Pat Cipollone. Our Committee is 
certain that Donald Trump does not want Mr. Cipollone to 
testify here. Indeed, our evidence shows that Mr. Cipollone and 
his office tried to do what was right. They tried to stop a 
number of President Trump's plans for January 6th.
    Today, and in our coming hearings, you will hear testimony 
from other Trump White House staff explaining what Mr. 
Cipollone said and did, including on January 6th.
    But we think the American people deserve to hear from Mr. 
Cipollone personally. He should appear before this Committee, 
and we are working to secure his testimony.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. People answer the call to public service 
in such different ways. Some run for office. Some volunteer to 
make sure their neighbors can get to their voting locations. 
Some work at polling sites to help election day go smoothly. 
Some look into problems to guarantee our elections are secure 
and accurate, just to name a few.
    As I mentioned at the start of this hearing, when we talk 
about our democratic institutions, we are talking about these 
individuals and many others who do these jobs across the 
country. They represent the backbone of our democracy at its 
most important moments: When the citizens cast their votes and 
when those votes are counted.
    We have heard the stories of their courage. They have 
earned the thanks of a grateful Nation.
    But, for Donald Trump, these witnesses and others like them 
were another roadblock to his attempt to cling to power.
    On Thursday, we will hear about another part of that 
scheme, his attempt to corrupt the country's top law 
enforcement body, the Justice Department, to support his 
attempt to overturn the election.
    Just as we heard today that Donald Trump was deeply 
involved in a scheme to pressure State officials to overturn 
the election results, we will hear on Thursday that Donald 
Trump was also the driving force behind an effort to corrupt 
the Justice Department. Listen to this clip from the former 
Acting Deputy Attorney General, Richard Donoghue.

    Former Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue. The President said, 
``Suppose I do this. Suppose I replace him,'' Jeff Rosen, ``with him,'' 
Jeff Clark. ``What do you do?'' And I said, ``Sir, I would resign 
immediately. There is no way I'm serving 1 minute under this guy.'' 
Jeff Clark.

    Chairman Thompson. You will hear from Mr. Donoghue in 
person on Thursday, as my colleague, Mr. Kinzinger, presents 
details about this plan.
    The Chair requests those in the hearing room remain seated 
until the Capitol Police have escorted Members from the room.
    Without objection, the Committee stands adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 3:39 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.]

                                 [all]
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 19 (Monday, January 31, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S395-S396]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to executive session to resume consideration of the following 
nomination, which the clerk will report.
  The legislative clerk read the nomination of Bridget Meehan Brennan, 
of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District 
of Ohio.
  Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. Hirono). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                               January 6

  Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I couldn't help but think today that the 
distinguished Presiding Officer and I both had the opportunity to be 
prosecutors. And I thought today about prosecutors--I listened to what 
former President Donald Trump said. I listened to him with horror and 
disbelief, especially when I saw it on television, and he was obviously 
reading his words off a teleprompter and knew exactly what he was 
saying.
  He basically said that if he was reelected, he would be inclined to 
give Presidential pardons to the people who stormed the U.S. Capitol a 
year ago, January 6--the people who came in here as insurrectionists; 
the people who came in here doing enormous damage and injuries; the 
people who caused many to die; the people who set up a gallows outside 
the Capitol with a noose on it with Vice President Pence's name on it, 
saying that if he is not willing to ignore the law and suddenly give 
the Presidency to Donald Trump, a man who had lost by millions of 
votes, this is what he deserved, the gallows.
  It is the sort of thing that if you saw it in a B-rated horror movie, 
you would say this is so unbelievable, but here it is real.
  You had people committing terrible crimes--destruction of property, 
injuries to people, trying to kill and eventually did kill police 
officers. I remember that day, and I am sure the Presiding Officer 
does, because we were all on the floor of the Senate as the Vice 
President was rushed off the dais where the Presiding Officer is right 
now and where I opened the U.S. Senate just minutes ago.
  And then, before we knew what was going on, we suddenly saw several 
other plainclothes police officers come in here and a big one in a 
uniform carrying a submachine gun with a vest that said ``POLICE.'' We 
were told we had to leave and go to the safe room and were escorted out 
by armed police

[[Page S396]]

officers. If it weren't for some of the brave operations of these 
officers, we had Members of both parties who could have been victims of 
the mob.
  And just minutes after we were escorted from here, this place was 
stormed by some who thought it was the House of Representatives. I 
mean, they just obviously had been inspired to come up here and storm 
the Capitol. They wanted the election turned over at the request of 
Donald Trump to give it to him even though he had lost. And I thought--
I never thought I would see something like this.
  I remember when I was a young law student at Georgetown Law School, I 
would come up here and sit in the Gallery and watch this place, this 
body, and watch both Republicans and Democrats debate everything from 
civil rights to voting rights and routine matters. I thought, ``What a 
place to be.'' These extraordinary Senators from both parties from all 
over the country speaking about the laws and the Constitution of our 
country.
  I remember, even after I went back to Vermont after I was practicing 
law and became a prosecutor, I thought of the days I was here with my 
parents and others just watching this body and how thrilled I was when 
I came here, thinking the U.S. Senate can and should be the conscience 
of the Nation. And then I looked on television and saw a man who was 
decisively defeated for reelection to the Presidency, saying to his 
followers: If I am elected President again, I can pardon all these 
criminals who came in here, these insurrectionists--people, actually, 
many whom it is very clear were encouraged to come here and storm the 
Capitol at his request.
  We are a nation of laws. We are not a nation of individuals; we are a 
nation of laws. And we survive as a nation and we excel as a nation if 
we follow the law, if all of us do. On the Senate floor, we can debate. 
Both parties can disagree on things, and we do often. I think we all 
believe in the fact that we have laws, and you must follow them.
  When I was a prosecutor, I thought, if somebody broke the law, there 
are consequences for it. I cannot imagine what it would have been like 
as a young prosecutor if I heard somebody running for high office in my 
State--in this case, a Governor--who said: Go ahead. Break every law 
you can to help me get elected because I will pardon you as soon as I 
get in there. I think I would be before a grand jury pretty quickly 
talking about that candidate. Yet that is what we see.
  How could anybody be so blinded to what this Nation is that they will 
ignore what this Nation is? How can anybody be so blinded to the laws 
of this country that they can ignore those laws? How can anybody be so 
blinded to our Constitution that they can ask people to violate the 
Constitution?
  ``Commit crimes in my name, and don't worry, I will take care of you. 
I will make sure you are pardoned.''
  This country has to get back to--Republicans and Democrats alike--
believing in the rule of law. Disagree if we want, disagree at the 
ballot box, but follow the law and stop giving the impression to the 
rest of the world that we are some kind of a pending dictatorship, 
where the law and the Constitution are set aside for the whim of 
whoever is elected.
  I will speak more on this at another time. I know the distinguished 
Presiding Officer has spoken out on this matter before. I greatly 
admire what she has said, and I will continue to speak out.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum 
call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 135 (Friday, August 12, 2022)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E841]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           APPRECIATING INDIA

                                 ______
                                 

                            HON. JOE WILSON

                           of south carolina

                    in the house of representatives

                        Friday, August 12, 2022

  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, August 15th is a 
significant date in world history as it marks the 75th Anniversary of 
the independence of the Republic of India. The landmark occasion is 
being celebrated as an historic democratic victory in a festival called 
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav.
  America especially rejoices for the people of India as the world's 
oldest democracy celebrates the world's largest democracy. 2022 is 
especially significant as democracies (rule of law) are threatened by 
authoritarians (rule of gun), exemplified by war criminal Putin 
murderously invading Ukraine, the Chinese Communist Party threatening 
Taiwan, and Iranian theocrats chanting Death to Israel, Death to 
America. World chaos is also a threat to the people of India.
  As the son of a U.S. Army Air Corps member in the Flying Tigers who 
served in India and China, I grew up with an appreciation of the work 
ethic my father recognized in India. As a real estate attorney in South 
Carolina, I welcomed new investors who bought hotels and motels 
creating jobs across the state.
  In Congress I chaired the largest country Caucus, the Caucus of India 
and Indian Americans. I will be forever grateful to have been with 
Governor Nikki Haley (America's second Indian American Governor) to 
welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Center Ring of Madison Square 
Garden in New York City. I was also on the escort committee for the 
Prime Minister's address to Congress. I was present with President 
Donald Trump for the historic 'Howdy Modi' celebration in Houston, 
Texas, with over 50,000 Indian-Americans in attendance. Additionally, I 
attended the Prime Minister's 2019 Independence Day address at the Red 
Fort in New Delhi, India.
  Over the years, I have had the opportunity to serve with the Consul 
General of India in Atlanta, Dr. Swati V. Kulkarni, who is passionate 
for the people of India.
  The 75th Anniversary is an opportunity for the shared values of India 
and America to be fulfilled. President Donald Trump correctly 
identified the Indo-Pacific Command as a way to promote Indian-U.S. 
military cooperation for Peace Through Strength. India's proven 
industrial capabilities provide an opportunity to reduce dependence on 
foreign military sales.
  The future is bright for the people of India and with our shared 
values of democracy, the future is bright for a strong alliance of 
India and America.

                          ____________________


[House Hearing, 117 Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

=======================================================================

                                HEARING

                               BEFORE THE

                          SELECT COMMITTEE TO
                      INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH
                             ATTACK ON THE
                         UNITED STATES CAPITOL

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               __________

                              JUNE 9, 2022

                               __________

                            Serial No. 117-2

                               __________

Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
                6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                                     

[GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
                                     

        Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov

                               __________
                               
                     U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE                    
48-998 PDF                 WASHINGTON : 2022                     
          
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------                               

 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE UNITED 
                             STATES CAPITOL

               Bennie G. Thompson, Mississippi, Chairman
                    Liz Cheney, Wyoming, Vice Chair
                        Zoe Lofgren, California
                       Adam B. Schiff, California
                        Pete Aguilar, California
                      Stephanie N. Murphy, Florida
                         Jamie Raskin, Maryland
                       Elaine G. Luria, Virginia
                        Adam Kinzinger, Illinois
                            COMMITTEE STAFF

                    David B. Buckley, Staff Director
      Kristin L. Amerling, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
             Timothy J. Heaphy, Chief Investigative Counsel
                  Hope Goins, Counsel to the Chairman
                      Jamie Fleet, Senior Advisor
          Joseph B. Maher, Senior Counselor to the Vice Chair
               Timothy R. Mulvey, Communications Director
           Candyce Phoenix, Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor

Katherine B. Abrams, Staff           Thomas E. Joscelyn, Senior 
    Associate                            Professional Staff Member
Temidayo Aganga-Williams, Senior     Rebecca L. Knooihuizen, Financial 
    Investigative Counsel                Investigator
Alejandra Apecechea, Investigative   Casey E. Lucier, Investigative 
    Counsel                              Counsel
Lisa A. Bianco, Director of Member   Damon M. Marx, Professional Staff 
    Services and Security Manager        Member
Jerome P. Bjelopera, Investigator    Evan B. Mauldin, Chief Clerk
Bryan Bonner, Investigative Counsel  Yonatan L. Moskowitz, Senior 
Richard R. Bruno, Senior                 Counsel
    Administrative Assistant         Hannah G. Muldavin, Deputy 
Marcus Childress, Investigative          Communications Director
    Counsel                          Jonathan D. Murray, Professional 
John Marcus Clark, Security              Staff Member
    Director                         Jacob A. Nelson, Professional 
Jacqueline N. Colvett, Digital           Staff Member
    Director                         Elizabeth Obrand, Staff Associate
Heather I. Connelly, Professional    Raymond O'Mara, Director of 
    Staff Member                         External Affairs
Meghan E. Conroy, Investigator       Elyes Ouechtati, Technology 
Heather L. Crowell, Printer              Partner
    Proofreader                      Robin M. Peguero, Investigative 
William C. Danvers, Senior               Counsel
    Researcher                       Sandeep A. Prasanna, Investigative 
Soumyalatha O. Dayananda, Senior         Counsel
    Investigative Counsel            Barry Pump, Parliamentarian
Stephen W. DeVine, Senior Counsel    Sean M. Quinn, Investigative 
Lawrence J. Eagleburger,                 Counsel
    Professional Staff Member        Brittany M. J. Record, Senior 
Kevin S. Elliker, Investigative          Counsel
    Counsel                          Joshua D. Roselman, Investigative 
Margaret E. Emamzadeh, Staff             Counsel
    Associate                        James N. Sasso, Investigative 
Sadallah A. Farah, Professional          Counsel
    Staff Member                     Grant H. Saunders, Professional 
Daniel A. George, Senior                 Staff Member
    Investigative Counsel            Samantha O. Stiles, Chief 
Jacob H. Glick, Investigative            Administrative Officer
    Counsel                          Sean P. Tonolli, Senior 
Aaron S. Greene, Clerk                   Investigative Counsel
Marc S. Harris, Senior               David A. Weinberg, Senior 
    Investigative Counsel                Professional Staff Member
Alice K. Hayes, Clerk                Amanda S. Wick, Senior 
Quincy T. Henderson, Staff               Investigative Counsel
    Assistant                        Darrin L. Williams, Jr., Staff 
Camisha L. Johnson, Professional         Assistant
    Staff Member                     John F. Wood, Senior Investigative 
                                         Counsel
                                     Zachary S. Wood, Clerk
                       CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS

                             Rawaa Alobaidi
                             Melinda Arons
                              Steve Baker
                            Elizabeth Bisbee
                              David Canady
                             John Coughlin
                             Aaron Dietzen
                              Gina Ferrise
                           Angel Goldsborough
                             James Goldston
                              Polly Grube
                          L. Christine Healey
                             Danny Holladay
                              Percy Howard
                              Dean Jackson
                           Stephanie J. Jones
                              Hyatt Mamoun
                               Mary Marsh
                               Todd Mason
                              Ryan Mayers
                              Jeff McBride
                               Fred Muram
                             Alex Newhouse
                              John Norton
                             Orlando Pinder
                               Owen Pratt
                              Dan Pryzgoda
                              Brian Sasser
                            William Scherer
                              Driss Sekkat
                              Chris Stuart
                            Preston Sullivan
                              Brian Young

                           Innovative Driven
                            
                            
                            C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page

                               Statements

The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee 
  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
  Capitol........................................................     1
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to 
  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol     4

                               Witnesses

Officer Caroline Edwards, U.S. Capitol Police, Washington, DC....    16
Mr. Nick Quested, Documentary Filmmaker, New York, NY............    17

                                Appendix

Prepared Statement of Officer Caroline Edwards, U.S. Capitol 
  Police, Washington, DC.........................................    27
Prepared Statement of Mr. Nick Quested, Documentary Filmmaker, 
  New York, NY...................................................    27

 
                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

                              ----------                              


                         Thursday, June 9, 2022

                     U.S. House of Representatives,
 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
                                 the United States Capitol,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 8:02 p.m., in 
room 390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson 
[Chairman of the Committee] presiding.
    Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger.
    Chairman Thompson. The Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in 
order.
    Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the 
Committee in recess at any point.
    Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 10, the 
Chair announces the Committee's approval to release the 
deposition material presented during tonight's hearing.
    Thanks to everyone watching tonight for sharing part of 
your evening to learn the facts and causes of the events 
leading up to and including the violent attack on January 6, 
2021, on our democracy, electoral system, and country.
    I am Bennie Thompson, Chairman of the January 6th, 2021, 
Committee. I was born, raised, and still live in Bolton, 
Mississippi, a town with a population of 521, which is midway 
between Jackson and Vicksburg, Mississippi, and the Mississippi 
River.
    I am from a part of the country where people justify the 
actions of slavery, the Ku Klux Klan, and lynching. I am 
reminded of that dark history as I hear voices today try and 
justify the actions of the insurrectionists on January 6, 2021.
    Over the next few weeks, hopefully you will get to know the 
other Members, my colleagues up here, and me. We represent a 
diversity of communities from all over the United States, rural 
areas and cities, East Coast, West Coast, and the heartland.
    All of us have one thing in common: We swore the same oath, 
that same oath that all Members of Congress take upon taking 
office and afterwards every 2 years if they are reelected. We 
swore an oath to defend the Constitution against all enemies, 
foreign and domestic.
    The words of the current oath taken by all of us that 
nearly every U.S. Government employee takes have their roots in 
the Civil War. Throughout our history, the United States has 
fought against foreign enemies to preserve our democracy, 
electoral system, and country.
    When the United States Capitol was stormed and burned in 
1814, foreign enemies were responsible. Afterward, in 1862, 
when American citizens had taken up arms against this country, 
Congress adopted a new oath to help make sure no person who had 
supported the rebellion could hold a position of public trust. 
Therefore, Congresspersons and United States Federal Government 
employees were required for the first time to swear an oath to 
defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and 
domestic.
    That oath was put to the test on January 6, 2021. The 
police officers who held the line that day honored their oath. 
Many came out of that day bloodied and broken. They still bear 
those wounds, visible and invisible. They did their duty. They 
repelled the mob and ended the occupation of the Capitol. They 
defended the Constitution against domestic enemies so that 
Congress could return, uphold our own oath, and count your 
votes to ensure the transfer of power, just as we have done for 
hundreds of years.
    But, unlike in 1814, it was domestic enemies of the 
Constitution who stormed the Capitol and occupied the Capitol, 
who sought to thwart the will of the people, to stop the 
transfer of power. They did so at the encouragement of the 
President of the United States--the President of the United 
States trying to stop the transfer of power, a precedent that 
had stood for 220 years, even as our democracy had faced its 
most difficult test.
    Thinking back again to the Civil War, in the summer of 
1864, the President of the United States believed he would be 
doomed in his bid for reelection. He believed his opponent, 
General George McClellan, would wave the white flag when it 
came to preserving the Union. But even with that grim fate 
hanging in the balance, President Lincoln was ready to accept 
the will of the voters, come what may.
    He made a quiet pledge. He wrote down the words: ``This 
morning, as for some days past, it seems exceedingly probable 
that this Administration will not be reelected. Then it will be 
my duty to so co-operate with the President-elect . . . ''
    ``It will be my duty.''
    Lincoln sealed that memo and asked his Cabinet Secretaries 
to sign it, sight unseen. He asked them to make the same 
commitment he did: To accept defeat if indeed defeat was the 
will of the people, to uphold the rule of law, to do what every 
President who came before him did and what every President who 
followed him would do until Donald Trump.
    Donald Trump lost the Presidential election in 2020. The 
American people voted him out of office. It was not because of 
a rigged system. It was not because of voter fraud. Don't 
believe me? Hear what his former attorney general had to say 
about it. I warn those who are watching that this contains 
strong language.

    Attorney General Barr. No, just what I--I've been--I've had--I had 
three discussions with the President that I can recall. One was on 
November 23rd, one was on December 1st, and one was on December 14th. 
And I've been through sort-of the give-and-take of those discussions. 
And in that context, I made it clear I did not agree with the idea of 
saying the election was stolen and putting out this stuff, which I told 
the President was bullshit. And, you know, I didn't want to be a part 
of it, and that's one of the reasons that went into me deciding to 
leave when I did. I observed, I think it was on December 1st, that, you 
know, how can we--you can't live in a world where--where the incumbent 
administration stays in power based on its view, unsupported by 
specific evidence, that the election--that there was fraud in the 
election.

    Chairman Thompson. Bill Barr, on election day 2020, he was 
the Attorney General of the United States, the top law 
enforcement official in the country, telling the President 
exactly what he thought about claims of a stolen election.
    Donald Trump had his days in court to challenge the 
results. He was within his rights to seek those judgments. In 
the United States, law-abiding citizens have those tools for 
pursuing justice. He lost in the courts just as he did at the 
ballot box. In this country, that is the end of the line.
    But for Donald Trump, that was only the beginning of what 
became a sprawling, multistep conspiracy aimed at overturning 
the Presidential election, aimed at throwing out the votes of 
millions of Americans--your votes, your voice in our 
democracy--and replacing the will of the American people with 
his will to remain in power after his term ended.
    Donald Trump was at the center of this conspiracy. 
Ultimately, Donald Trump, the President of the United States, 
spurred a mob of domestic enemies of the Constitution to march 
down the Capitol and subvert American democracy.
    Any legal jargon you hear about seditious conspiracy, 
obstruction of an official proceeding, conspiracy to defraud 
the United States boils down to this: January 6th was the 
culmination of an attempted coup, a brazen attempt, as one 
rioter put it shortly after January 6th, to overthrow the 
Government. The violence was no accident. It represented 
Trump's last stand, his most desperate chance to halt the 
transfer of power.
    Now you may hear those words and think this is just another 
political attack on Donald Trump by people who don't like him.
    That is not the case. My colleagues and I all wanted an 
outside, independent commission to investigate January 6th, 
similar to what we had after 9/11. But, after first agreeing to 
the idea, Donald Trump's allies in Congress put a stop to it. 
Apparently, they don't want January 6th investigated at all.
    In the last 17 months, many of those same people have tried 
to whitewash what happened on January 6th, to rewrite history, 
call it a tourist visit, label it ``legitimate political 
discourse.''
    Donald Trump and his followers have adopted the words of 
the songwriter: Do you believe me or your lying eyes?
    We can't sweep what happened under the rug. The American 
people deserve answers. So, I come before you this evening not 
as a Democrat but as an American who swore an oath to defend 
the Constitution. The Constitution doesn't protect just 
Democrats or just Republicans. It protects all of us, ``We the 
people.'' This scheme was an attempt to undermine the will of 
the people.
    So, tonight and over the next few weeks, we are going to 
remind you of the reality of what happened that day, but our 
work must do much more than just look backward. Because our 
democracy remains in danger, the conspiracy to thwart the will 
of the people is not over. There are those in this audience who 
thirst for power but have no love or respect for what makes 
America great: devotion to the Constitution, allegiance to the 
rule of law, our shared journey to build a more perfect Union.
    January 6th and the lies that led to insurrection have put 
2\1/2\ centuries of Constitutional democracy at risk. The world 
is watching what we do here. America has long been expected to 
be a shining city on the hill, a beacon of hope and freedom, a 
model for others when we are at our best. How can we play that 
role when our house is in such disorder?
    We must confront the truth with candor, resolve, and 
determination. We need to show that we are worthy of the gifts 
that are the birthright of every American. That begins here, 
and it begins now with a true accounting of what happened and 
what led to the attack on our Constitution and our democracy.
    In this moment when the dangers of our Constitution and our 
democracy loom large, nothing could be more important. Working 
alongside the public servants on this dais has been one of the 
greatest honors of my time in Congress.
    It has been a particular privilege to count as a partner in 
this effort and to count as a friend the gentlewoman from 
Wyoming, Ms. Cheney. She is a patriot, a public servant of 
profound courage, of devotion to her oath and the Constitution.
    It is my pleasure to recognize Ms. Cheney for her opening 
statement.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Let me echo those words about the importance of 
bipartisanship and what a tremendous honor it is to work on 
this Committee.
    Mr. Chairman, at 6:01 p.m. on January 6th, after he spent 
hours watching a violent mob besiege, attack, and invade our 
Capitol, Donald Trump tweeted. But he did not condemn the 
attack. Instead, he justified it.
    ``These are the things and events that happen,'' he said, 
``when a sacred landslide election victory is so 
unceremoniously and viciously stripped away from great patriots 
who have been badly and unfairly treated for so long.''
    As you will see in the hearings to come, President Trump 
believed his supporters at the Capitol, and I quote, ``were 
doing what they should be doing.'' This is what he told his 
staff as they pleaded with him to call off the mob, to instruct 
his supporters to leave.
    Over a series of hearings in the coming weeks, you will 
hear testimony, live and on video, from more than half a dozen 
former White House staff in the Trump administration, all of 
whom were in the West Wing of the White House on January 6th. 
You will hear testimony that, ``the President did not really 
want to put anything out,'' calling off the riot or asking his 
supporters to leave.
    You will hear that President Trump was yelling and, 
``really angry'' at advisors who told him he needed to be doing 
something more.
    Aware of the rioters' chants to hang Mike Pence, the 
President responded with this sentiment, ``Maybe our supporters 
have the right idea.'' Mike Pence, ``deserves it.''
    You will hear evidence that President Trump refused for 
hours to do what his staff, his family, and many of his other 
advisors begged him to do: Immediately instruct his supporters 
to stand down and evacuate the Capitol.
    Tonight you will see never-before-seen footage of the 
brutal attack on our Capitol, an attack that unfolded while a 
few blocks away President Trump sat watching television in the 
dining room next to the Oval Office.
    You will hear audio from the brave police officers battling 
for their lives and ours, fighting to defend our democracy 
against a violent mob Donald Trump refused to call off.
    Tonight, and in the weeks to come, you will see evidence of 
what motivated this violence, including directly from those who 
participated in this attack. You will see video of them 
explaining what caused them to do it. You will see their posts 
on social media. We will show you what they have said in 
Federal court.
    On this point, there is no room for debate: Those who 
invaded our Capitol and battled law enforcement for hours were 
motivated by what President Trump had told them, that the 
election was stolen and that he was the rightful President. 
President Trump summoned the mob, assembled the mob, and lit 
the flame of this attack.
    You will also hear about plots to commit seditious 
conspiracy on January 6th, a crime defined in our laws as 
conspiring to overthrow, put down, or destroy by force the 
Government of the United States or to oppose by force the 
authority thereof.
    Multiple members of two groups, the Oath Keepers and the 
Proud Boys, have been charged with this crime for their 
involvement in the events leading up to and on January 6th. 
Some have pled guilty.
    The attack on our Capitol was not a spontaneous riot. 
Intelligence available before January 6th identified plans to, 
``invade the Capitol,'' ``occupy the Capitol,'' and take other 
steps to halt Congress' count of electoral votes that day.
    In our hearings to come, we will identify elements of those 
plans, and we will show specifically how a group of Proud Boys 
led a mob into the Capitol Building on January 6th.
    Tonight, I am going to describe for you some of what our 
Committee has learned and highlight initial findings you will 
see this month in our hearings.
    As you hear this, all Americans should keep in mind this 
fact: On the morning of January 6th, President Donald Trump's 
intention was to remain President of the United States, despite 
the lawful outcome of the 2020 election and in violation of his 
Constitutional obligation to relinquish power. Over multiple 
months, Donald Trump oversaw and coordinated a sophisticated 7-
part plan to overturn the Presidential election and prevent the 
transfer of Presidential power. In our hearings, you will see 
evidence of each element of this plan.
    In our second hearing, you will see that Donald Trump and 
his advisors knew that he had, in fact, lost the election. But, 
despite this, President Trump engaged in a massive effort to 
spread false and fraudulent information, to convince huge 
portions of the U.S. population that fraud had stolen the 
election from him. This was not true.
    Jason Miller was a senior Trump campaign spokesman. In this 
clip, Miller describes a call between the Trump campaign's 
internal data expert and President Trump a few days after the 
2020 election.

    Mr. Miller. I was in the Oval Office, and at some point in the 
conversation Matt Oczkowski, who was the lead data person, was brought 
on, and I remember he delivered to the President pretty blunt terms 
that he was going to lose.
    Mr. Heaphy. And that was based, Mr. Miller, on Matt and the data 
team's assessment of the sort-of county-by-county, State-by-State 
results as reported?
    Mr. Miller. Correct.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Alex Cannon was one of President Trump's 
campaign lawyers. He previously worked for the Trump 
organization. One of his responsibilities was to assess 
allegations of election fraud in November 2020. Here is one 
sample of his testimony, discussing what he told White House 
Chief of Staff Mark Meadows.

    Mr. Cannon. I remember a call with Mr. Meadows where Mr. Meadows 
was asking me what I was finding, and if I was finding anything. And I 
remember sharing with him that we weren't finding anything that would 
be sufficient to change the results in any of the key States.
    Mr. Harris. When was that conversation?
    Mr. Cannon. Probably in November, mid- to late-November. I think it 
was before my child was born.
    Mr. Harris. And what was Mr. Meadows' reaction to that information?
    Mr. Cannon. I believe the words he used were, so there's no there 
there.

    Vice Chair Cheney. ``There is no there there.''
    The Trump campaign's general counsel, Matt Morgan, gave 
similar testimony. He explained that all of the fraud 
allegations and the campaign's other election arguments taken 
together and viewed in the best possible light for President 
Trump could still not change the outcome of the election.
    President Trump's Attorney General, Bill Barr, also told 
Donald Trump his election claims were wrong.

    Attorney General Barr. Repeatedly told the President in no 
uncertain terms that I did not see evidence of fraud. And--you know, 
that would have affected the outcome of the election. And frankly a 
year and a half later, I haven't seen anything to change my mind on 
that.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Attorney General Barr also told 
President Trump that his allegations about Dominion voting 
machines were groundless.

    Attorney General Barr. I saw absolutely zero basis for the 
allegations, but they were made in such a sensational way that they 
obviously were influencing a lot of people--members of the public--that 
there was this systemic corruption in the system and that their votes 
didn't count and that these machines controlled by somebody else were 
actually determining it, which was complete nonsense. And it was being 
laid out there. And I told them that it was--that it was crazy stuff 
and they were wasting their time on that. And it was doing a great, 
grave disservice to the country.

    Vice Chair Cheney. But President Trump persisted, repeating 
the false Dominion allegations in public at least a dozen more 
times, even after his Attorney General told him they were, 
``complete nonsense.''
    After Barr's resignation on December 23rd, the Acting 
Attorney General who replaced him, Jeff Rosen, and the Acting 
Deputy, Richard Donoghue, told President Trump over and over 
again that the evidence did not support allegations he was 
making in public.
    Many of President Trump's White House staff also recognized 
that the evidence did not support the claims President Trump 
was making. This is the President's daughter commenting on Bill 
Barr's statement that the Department found no fraud sufficient 
to overturn the election.

    Mr. Heaphy. How did that affect your perspective about the election 
when Attorney General Barr made that statement?
    Ms. Trump. It affected my perspective. I respect Attorney General 
Barr. So, I accepted what he was saying.

    Vice Chair Cheney. As you will hear on Monday, the 
President had every right to litigate his campaign claims. But 
he ultimately lost more than 60 cases in State and Federal 
courts. The President's claims in the election cases were so 
frivolous and unsupported that the President's lead lawyer, 
Rudy Giuliani, not only lost the lawsuits, his license to 
practice law was suspended. Here is what the court said of Mr. 
Giuliani: Giuliani ``communicated demonstrably false and 
misleading statements to courts, lawmakers, and the public at 
large in his capacity as lawyer for former President Donald J. 
Trump and the Trump campaign in connection with Trump's failed 
effort at reelection in 2020.''
    As you will see in great detail in our hearings, President 
Trump ignored the rulings of our Nation's courts. He ignored 
his own campaign leadership, his White House staff, many 
Republican State officials. He ignored the Department of 
Justice and the Department of Homeland Security.
    President Trump invested millions of dollars of campaign 
funds purposely spreading false information, running ads he 
knew were false, and convincing millions of Americans that the 
election was corrupt and that he was the true President. As you 
will see, this misinformation campaign provoked the violence on 
January 6th.
    In our third hearing, you will see that President Trump 
corruptly planned to replace the Attorney General of the United 
States so the U.S. Justice Department would spread his false 
stolen election claims. In the days before January 6th, 
President Trump told his top Justice Department officials, 
``Just say the election was corrupt and leave the rest to me 
and the Republican Congressmen.''
    Senior Justice Department officials, men he had appointed, 
told him they could not do that because it was not true.
    So, President Trump decided to replace them. He offered 
Jeff Clark, an environmental lawyer at the Justice Department, 
the job of Acting Attorney General. President Trump wanted Mr. 
Clark to take a number of steps, including sending this letter 
to Georgia and 5 other States, saying the United States 
Department of Justice had, ``identified significant concerns 
that may have impacted the outcome of the election.''
    This letter is a lie. The Department of Justice had, in 
fact, repeatedly told President Trump exactly the opposite, 
that they had investigated his stolen election allegations and 
found no credible fraud that could impact the outcome of the 
election. This letter and others like it would have urged 
multiple States to withdraw their official and lawful electoral 
votes for Biden.
    Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard Donoghue described 
Jeff Clark's letter this way, ``this would be a grave step for 
the Department to take and it could have tremendous 
Constitutional, political, and social ramifications for the 
country.''
    The Committee agrees with Mr. Donoghue's assessment. Had 
Clark assumed the role of Attorney General in the days before 
January 6th and issued these letters, the ramifications could 
indeed have been grave.
    Mr. Donoghue also said this about Clark's plan.

    Acting United States Deputy Attorney General Donoghue. And I recall 
toward the end saying what you're proposing is nothing less than the 
United States Justice Department meddling in the outcome of a 
Presidential election.

    Vice Chair Cheney. In our hearings, you will hear first-
hand how the senior leadership of the Department of Justice 
threatened to resign, how the White House Counsel threatened to 
resign, and how they confronted Donald Trump and Jeff Clark in 
the Oval Office. The men involved, including Acting Attorney 
General Jeff Rosen and Acting Deputy Attorney General Richard 
Donoghue, were appointed by President Trump. These men honored 
their oaths of office. They did their duty. You will hear from 
them in our hearings.
    By contrast, Jeff Clark has invoked his Fifth Amendment 
privilege against self-incrimination and refused to testify.
    Representative Scott Perry, who was also involved in trying 
to get Clark appointed as Attorney General, has refused to 
testify here. As you will see, Representative Perry contacted 
the White House in the weeks after January 6th to seek a 
Presidential pardon.
    Multiple other Republican Congressmen also sought 
Presidential pardons for their roles in attempting to overturn 
the 2020 election.
    In our fourth hearing, we will focus on President Trump's 
efforts to pressure Vice President Mike Pence to refuse to 
count electoral votes on January 6th.
    Vice President Pence has spoken publicly about this.

    Vice President Pence. President Trump is wrong. I had no right to 
overturn the election. The Presidency belongs to the American people 
and the American people alone. And frankly, there is no idea more un-
American than the notion that any one person could choose the American 
President.

    Vice Chair Cheney. What President Trump demanded that Mike 
Pence do wasn't just wrong. It was illegal, and it was 
unconstitutional. You will hear this in great detail from the 
Vice President's former general counsel.
    Witnesses in these hearings will explain how the former 
Vice President and his staff informed President Trump over and 
over again that what he was pressuring Mike Pence to do was 
illegal. As you will hear, President Trump engaged in a 
relentless effort to pressure Pence, both in private and in 
public. You will see the evidence of that pressure from 
multiple witnesses live and on video.
    Vice President Pence demonstrated his loyalty to Donald 
Trump consistently over 4 years, but he knew that he had a 
higher duty to the United States Constitution. This is 
testimony from the Vice President's Chief of Staff.

    Mr. Short. That's why I think the Vice President was proud of his 4 
years of service, and he felt like much had been accomplished in those 
4 years. And I think he was proud to have stood beside the President 
for all that had been done. But I think he ultimately knew that his 
fidelity to the Constitution was his first and foremost oath. And--and 
that's--that's what he articulated publicly. And I think that that's 
what he felt.
    Mr. Heaphy. His fidelity to the Constitution was more important 
than his fidelity to President Trump and his desires----
    Mr. Short. The oath he took.
    Mr. Heaphy. Yes.

    Vice Chair Cheney. You will also hear about a lawyer named 
John Eastman. Mr. Eastman was deeply involved in President 
Trump's plans. You will hear from former Fourth Circuit Federal 
Judge Michael Luttig, a highly-respected leading conservative 
judge. John Eastman clerked for Judge Luttig. Judge Luttig 
provided counsel to the Vice President's team in the days 
before January 6th. The judge will explain how Eastman, ``was 
wrong at every turn.''
    You will see the email exchanges between Eastman and the 
Vice President's counsel as the violent attack on Congress was 
underway. Mr. Jacob said this to Mr. Eastman: ``Thanks to your 
bullshit, we are under siege.''
    You will also see evidence that John Eastman did not 
actually believe the legal position he was taking. In fact, a 
month before the 2020 election, Eastman took exactly the 
opposite view on the same legal issues.
    In the course of the Select Committee's work to obtain 
information from Mr. Eastman, we have had occasion to present 
evidence to a Federal judge. The judge evaluated the facts, and 
he reached the conclusion that President Trump's efforts to 
pressure Vice President Pence to act illegally by refusing to 
count electoral votes likely violated two Federal criminal 
statutes.
    The judge also said this: ``If Dr. Eastman and President 
Trump's plan had worked, it would have permanently ended the 
peaceful transition of power, undermining American democracy 
and the Constitution. If the country does not commit to 
investigating and pursuing accountability for those 
responsible, the Court fears January 6th will repeat itself.''
    Every American should read what this Federal judge has 
written.
    The same judge, Judge Carter, issued another decision on 
Tuesday night, just this week, indicating that John Eastman and 
other Trump lawyers knew that their legal arguments had no real 
chance of success in court, but they relied on those arguments 
anyway to try to, ``overturn a democratic election.''
    You will hear that, while Congress was under attack on 
January 6th and the hours following the violence, the Trump 
legal team in the Willard Hotel war room continued to work to 
halt the count of electoral votes.
    In our fifth hearing, you will see evidence that President 
Trump corruptly pressured State legislators and election 
officials to change election results. You will hear additional 
details about President Trump's call to Georgia officials, 
urging them to, ``find 11,780 votes,'' votes that did not 
exist, and his efforts to get States to rescind certified 
electoral slates without factual basis and contrary to law.
    You will hear new details about the Trump campaign and 
other Trump associates' efforts to instruct Republican 
officials in multiple States to create intentionally false 
electoral slates and transmit those slates to Congress, to the 
Vice President, and the National Archives, falsely certifying 
that Trump won States he actually lost.
    In our final two June hearings, you will hear how President 
Trump summoned a violent mob and directed them illegally to 
march on the United States Capitol. While the violence was 
under way, President Trump failed to take immediate action to 
stop the violence and instruct his supporters to leave the 
Capitol.
    As we present these initial findings, keep two points in 
mind: First, our investigation is still on-going. So, what we 
make public here will not be the complete set of information we 
will ultimately disclose. Second, the Department of Justice is 
currently working with cooperating witnesses and has disclosed 
to date only some of the information it has identified from 
encrypted communications and other sources.
    On December 18, 2020, a group, including General Michael 
Flynn, Sidney Powell, Rudy Giuliani, and others, visited the 
White House. They stayed late into the evening. We know that 
the group discussed a number of dramatic steps, including 
having the military seize voting machines and potentially rerun 
elections.
    You will also hear that President Trump met with that group 
alone for a period of time before White House lawyers and other 
staff discovered the group was there and rushed to intervene.
    A little more than an hour after Ms. Powell, Mr. Giuliani, 
General Flynn, and the others finally left the White House, 
President Trump sent the tweet on the screen now, telling 
people to come to Washington on January 6th. ``Be there,'' he 
instructed them, ``will be wild.''
    As you will see, this was a pivotal moment. This tweet 
initiated a chain of events. The tweet led to the planning for 
what occurred on January 6th, including by the Proud Boys, who 
ultimately led the invasion of the Capitol and the violence on 
that day.
    The indictment of a group of Proud Boys alleges that they 
planned, ``to oppose by force the authority of the Government 
of the United States.''
    According to the Department of Justice, on January 6, 2021, 
the defendants directed, mobilized, and led members of the 
crowd onto the Capitol Grounds and into the Capitol, leading to 
the dismantling of metal barricades, the destruction of 
property, the breaching of the Capitol Building, and the 
assaults on law enforcement.
    Although certain former Trump officials have argued that 
they did not anticipate violence on January 6th, the evidence 
suggests otherwise. As you will see in our hearings, the White 
House was receiving specific reports in the days leading up to 
January 6th, including during President Trump's Ellipse rally, 
indicating that elements in the crowd were preparing for 
violence at the Capitol.
    On the evening of January 5th, the President's close 
advisor, Steve Bannon, said this on his podcast.

    Mr. Bannon. All hell is going to break loose tomorrow. Just 
understand this. All hell is going to break loose tomorrow.

    Vice Chair Cheney. As part of our investigation, we will 
present information about what the White House and other 
intelligence agencies knew and why the Capitol was not better 
prepared.
    But we will not lose sight of the fact that the Capitol 
Police did not cause the crowd to attack. We will not blame the 
violence that day, violence provoked by Donald Trump, on the 
officers who bravely defended all of us.
    In our final hearing, you will hear a moment-by-moment 
account of the hours-long attack from more than half a dozen 
White House staff, both live in the hearing room and via 
videotaped testimony.
    There is no doubt that President Trump was well aware of 
the violence as it developed. White House staff urged President 
Trump to intervene and call off the mob.
    Here is a document written while the attack was under way 
by a member of the White House staff, advising what the 
President needed to say: ``Anyone who entered the Capitol 
without proper authority should leave immediately.''
    This is exactly what his supporters on Capitol Hill and 
Nation-wide were urging the President to do. He would not.
    You will hear that leaders on Capitol Hill begged the 
President for help, including Republican Leader McCarthy, who 
was ``scared'' and called multiple members of the President 
Trump's family after he could not persuade the President 
himself.
    Not only did President Trump refuse to tell the mob to 
leave the Capitol, he placed no call to any element of the U.S. 
Government to instruct that the Capitol be defended. He did not 
call his Secretary of Defense on January 6th. He did not talk 
to his Attorney General. He did not talk to the Department of 
Homeland Security. President Trump gave no order to deploy the 
National Guard that day, and he made no effort to work with the 
Department of Justice to coordinate and deploy law enforcement 
assets.
    But Vice President Pence did each of those things. For 
example, here is what General Milley, the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, testified to this Committee.

    General Milley. There were two--two or three calls with Vice 
President Pence. He was very animated, and he issued very explicit, 
very direct, unambiguous orders. There was no question about that. 
And--and he was--and--and I can give you the exact quotes, I guess, 
from some of our records somewhere. But he was very animated, very 
direct, very firm. And to Secretary Miller: get the military down here. 
Get the Guard down here, put down this situation, et cetera.

    Vice Chair Cheney. By contrast, here is General Milley's 
description of his conversation with President Trump's Chief of 
Staff, Mark Meadows, on January 6th.

    General Milley. He said we have--we have to kill the narrative that 
the Vice President is making all the decisions. We need to establish 
the narrative that, you know, that the President is still in charge and 
that things are steady or stable or words to that effect. I immediately 
interpret that as politics, politics, politics. Red flag for me 
personally, no action. But I remember it distinctly.

    Vice Chair Cheney. You will hear from witnesses how the day 
played out inside the White House, how multiple White House 
staff resigned in disgust, and how President Trump would not 
ask his supporters to leave the Capitol. It was only after 
multiple hours of violence that President Trump finally 
released a video instructing the riotous mob to leave. As he 
did so, he said to them: ``We love you, and you are very 
special.''
    You will also hear that, in the immediate aftermath of 
January 6th, members of the President's family, White House 
staff, and others tried to step in to stabilize the situation, 
``to land the plane'' before the Presidential transition on 
January 20th.
    You will hear about members of the Trump Cabinet discussing 
the possibility of invoking the 25th Amendment and replacing 
the President of the United States.
    Multiple members of President Trump's own Cabinet resigned 
immediately after January 6th. One member of the Cabinet 
suggested that the remaining Cabinet officers needed to take a 
more active role in running the White House and the 
administration.
    But most emblematic of those days is this exchange of texts 
between Sean Hannity and former President Trump's press 
secretary, Kayleigh McEnany. Sean Hannity wrote in part: ``Key 
now. No more crazy people.'' ``No more stolen election talk.'' 
``Yes, impeachment and 25th amendment are real . . . many 
people will quit.''
    Ms. McEnany responded in part: ``Love that.'' ``That is the 
playbook.''
    The White House staff knew that President Trump was willing 
to entertain and use conspiracy theories to achieve his ends. 
They knew the President needed to be cut off from all of those 
who had encouraged him. They knew that President Donald Trump 
was too dangerous to be left alone at least until he left 
office on January 20th.
    These are important facts for Congress and the American 
people to understand fully.
    When a President fails to take the steps necessary to 
preserve our Union or, worse, causes a Constitutional crisis, 
we are at a moment of maximum danger for our Republic.
    Some in the White House took responsible steps to try to 
prevent January 6th. Others egged the President on. Others who 
could have acted refused to do so.
    In this case, the White House Counsel was so concerned 
about potentially lawless activity that he threatened to resign 
multiple times. That is exceedingly rare and exceedingly 
serious. It requires immediate attention, especially when the 
entire team threatens to resign.
    However, in the Trump White House, it was not exceedingly 
rare, and it was not treated seriously.
    This is a clip of Jared Kushner addressing multiple threats 
by White House Counsel Pat Cipollone and his team of lawyers to 
resign in the weeks before January 6th.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Jared, are you aware of instances where Pat 
Cipollone threatened to resign?
    Mr. Kushner. I--I kind-of--like I said, my interest at that time 
was on trying to get as many pardons done. And I know that, you know, 
he was always--to him and the team were always saying, Oh, we're going 
to resign. We're not going to be here if this happens, if that happens. 
So, I kind-of took it up to just be whining to be honest with you.

    Vice Chair Cheney. ``Whining.''
    There is a reason why people serving in our Government take 
an oath to the Constitution. As our Founding Fathers 
recognized, democracy is fragile. People in positions of public 
trust are duty-bound to defend it, to step forward when action 
is required.
    In our country, we don't swear an oath to an individual or 
a political party. We take our oath to defend the United States 
Constitution, and that oath must mean something.
    Tonight, I say this to my Republican colleagues who are 
defending the indefensible: There will come a day when Donald 
Trump is gone, but your dishonor will remain.
    Finally, I ask all of our fellow Americans, as you watch 
our hearings over the coming weeks, please remember what is at 
stake. Remember the men and women who have fought and died so 
that we can live under the rule of law, not the rule of men.
    I ask you to think of the scene in our Capitol rotunda on 
the night of January 6th. There, in a sacred space in our 
Constitutional Republic, the place where our Presidents lie in 
state, watched over by statues of Washington and Jefferson, 
Lincoln and Grant, Eisenhower, Ford, and Reagan, against every 
wall that night encircling the room there were SWAT teams, men 
and women in tactical gear with long guns, deployed inside our 
Capitol Building.
    There in the rotunda these brave men and women rested 
beneath paintings depicting the earliest scenes of our 
Republic, including one painted in 1824 depicting George 
Washington resigning his commission, voluntarily relinquishing 
power, handing control of the Continental Army back to 
Congress. With this noble act, Washington set the indispensable 
example of the peaceful transfer of power, what President 
Reagan called nothing less than a miracle.
    The sacred obligation to defend this peaceful transfer of 
power has been honored by every American President except one.
    As Americans, we all have a duty to ensure that what 
happened on January 6th never happens again, to set aside 
partisan battles, to stand together to perpetuate and preserve 
our great Republic.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Chairman Thompson. As we provide answers to the American 
people about January 6th, it is important that we remember 
exactly what took place, that this was no tourist visit to the 
Capitol.
    Most of the footage we are about to play has never been 
seen. The Select Committee obtained it as a part of our 
investigation.
    This isn't easy to watch. I want to warn everyone that this 
video includes violence and strong language.
    Without objection, I include in the record a video 
presentation of the violence of January 6th.

    Voice. Grab your bullet. Grab your bullet. Grab your bullet.
    MPD Radio Transmission. Yeah. Just be aware, be advised there's 
probably about 300 Proud Boys. They're marching eastbound in this 400 
block of kind-of Independence, actually on the Mall toward the United 
States Capitol.
    Crowd. U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A!
    Voice. I am not allowed to say what's going to happen today, 
because everyone's just going to have to watch for themselves. But it's 
going to happen. Something's going to happen.
    Crowd. Whose streets? Our streets. Whose streets? Our streets. 
Whose streets? Our streets.
    Voice. Don't need to hurt you. We are on your side. Don't make us 
go against you. Must be a brown shirt. Pick a side. Pick a side. These 
are our streets. 20 bucks a picture.
    President Trump. I hope Mike is going to do the right thing. I hope 
so. I hope so. Because if Mike Pence does the right thing, we win the 
election . . . 
    All Vice President Pence has to do is send it back to the States to 
recertify, and we become President, and you are the happiest people . . 
. 
    Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us. And if he 
doesn't, that will be a--a sad day for our country, because you'll 
never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength, 
and you have to be strong.
    Crowd. U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A!
    MPD Radio Transmission. Cruiser 50, it does look like we're going 
to have an ad hoc march stepping off here. There's a crowd surge 
heading east.
    Crowd. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. 
We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump. We love Trump.
    President Trump. Mike Pence, I hope you are going to stand up for 
the good of our Constitution and for the good of our country. And if 
you're not, I'm going to be very disappointed in you, I will tell you 
right now.
    Crowd. U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A!
    Voice. [screaming]
    Voice. Get back, lady. Get back, lady.
    USCP Radio Transmission. EA 101 priority, we've been passed first 
on Peace Circle, breached the line. We need back-up.
    Voice. What are you doing? Guys, what are you doing? Fuck yeah. 
Fuck yeah. [unintelligible]
    House Sergeant-at-Arms Paul D. Irving. Madam Speaker, the Vice 
President and the United States Senate. [applause]
    MPD Radio Transmission. Cruiser 50, we're going to give riot 
warning [unintelligible]. We're going to give riot warning. We're gonna 
try and get compliance, but this is now effectively a riot.
    MPD Radio Transmission. 1349 hours, declaring it a riot.
    MPD Radio Transmission. Cruiser 5 to 50, be advised Capitol Police 
1 advised they're trying to breach and get into the Capitol.
    MPD Radio Transmission. 50, I copy.
    Voice. Hold the line. Hold the line. Hold the line. Hold the line. 
Hold the line.
    Voice. Fuck the line.
    MPD Radio Transmission. 42, we're about 5 minutes out. We're trying 
to make our way through all this.
    Crowd. [unintelligible]
    Voice. Go, go, go, go, go.
    MPD Radio Transmission. Cruiser 50, we have a breach of the 
Capitol, breach of the Capitol from the upper level.
    MPD Radio Transmission. Be advised, they are requesting additional 
resources on the east side, as they have broken into that window, and 
they're trying to kick it in.
    Rep. James P. McGovern. Without objection, the Chair declares the 
House in recess pursuant to clause 12(b) of rule I.
    Voice. ``Mike Pence didn't have the courage to do what should have 
been done to protect our Country and our Constitution giving States a 
chance to certify a corrected set of facts, not the fraudulent or 
inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously certify. US[A] 
demands the truth.''
    Crowd. Bring out Pence. Bring out Pence. Bring him out. Bring out 
Pence. Hang Mike Pence. Hang Mike Pence. Hang Mike Pence. Hang Mike 
Pence. Hang Mike Pence. Hang Mike Pence.
    Voice. You pepper sprayed another American that was fighting for 
you. [unintelligible]
    Voice. Take it all away. Take it all away. Get him back in. 
[unintelligible]
    Crowd. Our house. Our house. Our house. Move, move. Our house. 
Whose house? Our house. Whose house? Our house. [unintelligible]
    Voice. Get the fuckers. [unintelligible]
    Voice. We can't hold this. We're going to get too many fucking 
people here. Look at this fucking vantage point. Man, we're fucked.
    USCP Radio Transmission. We need an area for the House Members. 
They're all walking over now through the tunnel.
    MPD Radio Transmission. We're trying to hold the upper deck. We are 
trying to hold the upper deck now. We need to close the doors of the 
Capitol. I need more support. [unintelligible]
    We've lost the line. We've lost the line. All MPD get back. All MPD 
pull back up to the upper deck. All MPD pull back to the upper deck 
ASAP.
    Crowd. Nancy, Nancy, Nancy, Nancy, Nancy, Nancy, Nancy, Nancy, 
Nancy, Nancy, Nancy. [unintelligible]
    Voice. Nancy Pelosi. [unintelligible]
    MPD Radio Transmission.  . . . Cruiser 50, be advised that Capitol 
Police are going to start moving their resources inside. They're going 
to start the N4 officers first.
    Voice. No violence. No violence. [unintelligible]
    USCP Radio Transmission.  . . . H-208 with the four Members, the 
door's barricaded. There's people flooding the hallways outside, and we 
have no way out.
    USCP Radio Transmission.  . . . Is that officers still remaining on 
the House floor in the--on the third floor to use the subways 
themselves. It's time to evacuate, so we can secure the Members on the 
other side. Copy?
    Crowd. Stop the steal! Stop the steal!
    Voice. It's up to us people now, the American people.
    Voice. But what are you ready to do?
    Voice. One more time?
    Voice. What are you ready to do?
    Voice. Whatever it takes. I'll lay my life down if it takes.
    Voice. Absolutely. That's why we showed up today.
    Voice. Bring her out. Bring her out here. We're coming in if you 
don't bring her out. Fuck you. Fuck you, you son of a bitch. You back 
up. You back up.
    Voice. Can I have my cell phone back?
    Voice. Go ahead and try.
    Voice. Get him up. Get him up. Get a medic.
    Voice. Officer down, get him up.
    Voice. We love you guys.
    Voice. Get him up. Get him up. Get him up.
    Crowd. U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! 
[unintelligible]
    MPD Radio Transmission.  . . . West Terrace door for backup.
    Voice. I need backup. I need backup.
    Voice. Back up. Back up. [unintelligible]
    President Trump. They were peaceful people. These were great 
people. The crowd was unbelievable. And I mentioned the word love. The 
love--the love in the air, I've never seen anything like it.

    Chairman Thompson. Pursuant to the order of the Committee 
of tonight, the Chair declares the Committee in recess for a 
period of approximately 10 minutes.
    [Accordingly, at 9:02 p.m., the Committee recessed until 
9:12 p.m., when it was called to order by the Chairman.]
    Chairman Thompson. I want to thank our witnesses for being 
with us this evening to share their first-hand accounts of that 
terrible day.
    I know that some of the witnesses from our first hearing 
are in the room with us, along with some of the family members, 
friends, and widows of the officers who lost their lives as a 
result of the attack. Thank you all for being here for us and 
the American people.
    Officer Caroline Edwards has been with the United States 
Capitol Police since 2017. On January 6th, Officer Edwards was 
assigned to the First Responder Unit, which serves as the first 
line of defense at the Capitol complex. She also served as a 
member of the Civil Disturbance Unit, a special subset of the 
Uniformed Division trained to respond to mass demonstration 
events. Officer Edwards is a graduate of the University of 
Georgia and currently is working on a master's degree in 
intelligence analysis from Johns Hopkins University.
    Nick Quested is an acclaimed filmmaker whose credits 
include documenting stories from war zones in Afghanistan, 
Syria, and Iraq. On January 6th, Mr. Quested was working on a 
documentary about, ``why Americans are so divided when 
Americans have so much in common.'' During that day, Mr. 
Quested interviewed and documented movements of the people 
around the Capitol, including the first moments of the violence 
against the Capitol Police and the chaos that ensued.
    I will now swear in our witnesses. The witnesses will 
please stand and raise your right hands.
    [Witnesses sworn.]
    Chairman Thompson. Let the record reflect the witnesses 
answered in the affirmative.
    Without objection, the witnesses' statements will be 
included in the record.
    Pursuant to section 5(c)(8) of House Resolution 503, I 
recognize myself for questioning.
    As you saw just a few minutes ago, the Proud Boys 
instigated the first breach of the Capitol just before 1 
o'clock p.m., where rioters pushed over barricades near the 
Peace Circle at the foot of the Capitol. Our two witnesses 
tonight were both there at the time of that first breach.
    Officer Edwards was standing with other officers behind a 
line of bike racks that marked the perimeter of the Capitol 
Grounds. She bravely tried to prevent an angry crowd from 
advancing on the Capitol. Unfortunately, she was overrun and 
knocked unconscious as the crowd advanced on the Capitol.
    Mr. Quested was a few yards away from Officer Edwards, 
taking footage of the Proud Boys as part of his work on a 
documentary film. Most of his footage has never been shown 
publicly before we shared it this evening.
    Officer Edwards, I would like to start by asking if you 
could tell us why you believe it is important for you to share 
your story this evening with the Committee and the American 
public.
    Officer Edwards.\1\ Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really 
appreciate it. Thank you to the Committee for having me here to 
testify.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\ Officer Edwards' prepared statement is included in the Appendix 
beginning on p. 27.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    I was called a lot of things on January 6, 2021, and the 
days thereafter. I was called Nancy Pelosi's dog, called 
incompetent, called a hero, and a villain. I was called a 
traitor to my country, my oath, and my Constitution.
    In actuality, I was none of those things. I was an American 
standing face-to-face with other Americans asking myself how 
many times--many, many times--how we had gotten here.
    I had been called names before, but never had my patriotism 
or duty been called into question. I, who got up every day, no 
matter how early the hour or how late I got in the night 
before, to put on my uniform and to protect America's symbol of 
democracy; I, who spent countless hours in the baking sun and 
freezing snow to make sure that America's elected officials 
were able to do their job; I, whose literal blood, sweat, and 
tears were shed that day defending the building that I spent 
countless holidays and weekends working in.
    I am the proud granddaughter of a Marine that fought in the 
Battle of the Chosin Reservoir in the Korean War. I think of my 
papa often in these days, how he was so young and thrown into a 
battle he never saw coming, and answered the call at a great 
personal cost; how he lived the rest of his days with bullets 
and shrapnel in his legs but never once complained about his 
sacrifice.
    I would like to think that he would be proud of me, proud 
of his granddaughter that stood her ground that day and 
continued fighting even though she was wounded, like he did 
many years ago. I am my grandfather's granddaughter, proud to 
put on a uniform and serve my country.
    They dared to question my honor. They dared to question my 
loyalty. They dared to question my duty. I am a proud American, 
and I will gladly sacrifice everything to make sure that the 
America my grandfather defended is here for many years to come.
    Thank you.
    Chairman Thompson. Officer Edwards, your story and your 
service is important, and I thank you for being here tonight.
    Mr. Quested, I would also like to ask you to introduce 
yourself. Can you tell us how you found yourself in Washington, 
DC, on January 6, 2021?
    Mr. Quested.\2\ Good evening, Chair and Madam Vice Chair. 
Thank you for the introduction.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\ Mr. Quested's prepared statement is included in the Appendix 
beginning on p. 27.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    As stated, in the winter of 2020, I was working on a 
documentary. As part of that documentary, I filmed several 
rallies in Washington, DC, on December 11th and December the 
12th, and I learned there would be a rally on The Mall on 
January 6th. So, my three colleagues and I came down to 
document the rally.
    According to the permit at the event, there was going to be 
a rally at the Ellipse. We arrived at The Mall and observed a 
large contingent of Proud Boys marching toward the Capitol. We 
filmed them, and almost immediately I was separated from my 
colleagues.
    I documented the crowd turn from protesters to rioters to 
insurrectionists. I was surprised at the size of the group, the 
anger, and the profanity.
    For anyone who didn't understand how violent that event 
was, I saw it, I documented it, and I experienced it. I heard 
incredibly aggressive chanting, and I subsequently shared that 
footage with the authorities.
    I am here today pursuant to a House subpoena.
    Thank you so much.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you, Mr. Quested.
    The Select Committee has conducted extensive investigative 
work to understand what led the Proud Boys and other rioters to 
the Capitol on January 6th.
    We have obtained substantial evidence showing that the 
President's December 19th tweet calling his followers to 
Washington, DC, on January 6th energized individuals from the 
Proud Boys and other extremist groups.
    I would like to play a brief video highlighting some of 
this evidence.

    Mr. Childress. My name is Marcus Childress, and I'm an 
investigative counsel for the Select Committee to Investigate 
the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol.
    President Trump. What do you want to call him? Give me a 
name. Give me a name. Go ahead.
    Debate Moderator Chris Wallace. White supremacists. 
[crosstalk]
    President Trump. Who would you like me to condemn?
    Debate Moderator Chris Wallace. White supremacists and----
    Then-Candidate Biden. Proud Boys. [crosstalk]
    President Trump. Proud Boys, stand back and stand by----
    Mr. Childress. After he made this comment, Enrique Tarrio, 
then chairman of the Proud Boys, said on Parler, ``Standing by 
sir.'' During our investigation, we learned that this comment 
during the Presidential debate actually led to an increase in 
membership in the Proud Boys.
    Mr. Quinn. Would you say that Proud Boys numbers increased 
after the stand back, stand by comment?
    Mr. Bertino. Exponentially. I'd say tripled probably. With 
the potential for a lot more eventually.
    Ms. Phoenix. And did you ever sell any stand back and stand 
by merchandise?
    Mr. Tarrio. Uh, one of the vendors on my page actually beat 
me to it, but I wish I would have--I wish I would have made a 
stand back, stand by shirt.
    Mr. Childress. On December 19th, President Trump tweeted 
about the January 6th rally and told attendees, ``Be there, 
will be wild!'' Many of the witnesses that we interviewed were 
inspired by the President's call and came to DC for January 
6th, but the extremists, they took it a step further. They 
viewed this tweet as a call to arms. A day later, the 
Department of Justice describes how the Proud Boys created a 
chat called the Ministry of Self Defense Leadership Chat. In 
this chat, the Proud Boys established a command structure in 
anticipation of coming back to DC on January 6th. The 
Department of Justice describes Mr. Tarrio coming into 
possession of a document called the ``1776 Returns,'' which 
describes individuals occupying key buildings around the United 
States Capitol. The Oath Keepers are another group that the 
Committee investigated.
    Mr. Jones. You better get your ass to DC folks this 
Saturday.
    Mr. Rhodes. Yeah. If you don't, there's gonna be no more 
Republic. But we're not gonna let that happen. It's not even an 
``if.'' It's either President Trump is encouraged and 
bolstered, strengthened to do what he must do, or we wind up in 
a bloody fight. We all know that. The fight's coming.
    Mr. Childress. The Oath Keepers began planning to block the 
peaceful transfer of power shortly after the November 3rd 
election. And according to the Department of Justice, Stewart 
Rhodes, the Oath Keeper's leader, said to his followers that, 
``We aren't getting through this without a civil war.'' In 
response to the December 19, 2020, tweet by President Trump, 
the Oath Keepers focused on January 6th in Washington, DC. In 
response to the tweet, one member, the president of the Florida 
chapter, put on social media, ``the President called us to the 
Capitol, he wants us to make it wild.'' The goal was for the 
Oath Keepers to be called to duty so that they could keep the 
President in power although President Trump had just lost the 
election. The Committee learned that the Oath Keepers set up 
quick reaction forces outside of the city and in Virginia where 
they stored arms. The goal of these quick reaction forces was 
to be on standby just in case President Trump invoked the 
Insurrection Act.
    Mr. Prasanna. Did the Oath Keepers ever provide weapons to 
members?
    Mr. Rhodes. I'm going to decline to answer that on Fifth 
Amendment grounds--for due process grounds.
    Mr. Childress. In footage obtained by the Committee, we 
learned that on the night of January 5th, Enrique Tarrio and 
Stewart Rhodes met in a parking garage in Washington, DC.
    Mr. Tarrio. There's mutual respect there. I think we're--
we're fighting the same fight, and I think that's what's 
important.
    Mr. Childress. The Committee learned that the Oath Keepers 
went into the Capitol through the east doors in two stack 
formations. The DOJ alleges that one of the stacks went into 
the Capitol looking for Speaker Pelosi, although they never 
found her. As the attack was unfolding, Mr. Tarrio took credit. 
In documents obtained by the Department of Justice, Mr. Tarrio 
said, in an encrypted chat, ``make no mistake'' and ``we did 
this.'' Later on that evening, Mr. Tarrio even posted a video 
which seemed to resemble him in front of the Capitol with a 
black cape. And the title of the video was, ``Premonition.'' 
The evidence developed by the Select Committee and the 
Department of Justice highlights how each group participated on 
the attack on the Capitol on January 6th.
    In fact, the investigation revealed that it was individuals 
associated with the Proud Boys who instigated the initial 
breach at the peace circle at 12:53 p.m.
    Crowd. U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A!
    Mr. Childress. Within 10 minutes, rioters had already 
filled the Lower West Plaza. [inaudible] By 2 o'clock, rioters 
had reached the doors on the West and the East Plazas. And by 
2:13, rioters had actually broken through the Senate wing door 
and got into the Capitol building. [inaudible] A series of 
breaches followed. At 
2:25 p.m., rioters breached the east side doors to the rotunda. 
[inaudible] And then right after 2:40 p.m., rioters breached 
the east side doors near the Ways and Means room. [inaudible] 
Once the rioters infiltrated the Capitol, they moved to the 
crypt, the rotunda, the hallways leading to the House Chamber, 
and even inside the Senate Chamber. [inaudible]

    Chairman Thompson. Individuals associated with two violent 
extremist groups have been charged with seditious conspiracy in 
connection with the January 6th attack.
    One is the Oath Keepers. They are a group of armed, 
antigovernment extremists. The other group is the Proud Boys. 
They promote white supremacist beliefs and have engaged in 
violence with people they view as their political enemies.
    Members of both groups have already pled guilty to crimes 
associated with the January 6th attack.
    Mr. Quested, as part of the documentary you have been 
filming, you gained access to the Proud Boys and their leader, 
Enrique Tarrio. Your crew filmed them in Washington, DC, on the 
evening of January 5th and then on January 6th.
    On January 5th, the night before the attack, you were with 
the head of the Proud Boys, Mr. Tarrio, in Washington, DC. What 
happened?
    Mr. Quested. We picked up Mr. Tarrio from jail. He had been 
arrested for carrying some magazines, some long--some extra-
capacity magazines, and for the--he took responsibility for the 
burning of the Black Lives Matter flag that was stolen from the 
church on December the 12th.
    We were attempting to get an interview with Mr. Tarrio. We 
had no idea of any of the events that were going to 
subsequently happen.
    We drove him to pick up his bags from the property 
department of the police, which is just south of The Mall. We 
picked up his bags and went to get some other bags from the 
Phoenix Hotel, where we encountered Mr. Stewart Rhodes from the 
Oath Keepers.
    By the time I had gone to park the car, my colleague was 
saying--who had got into the car with Mr. Tarrio--that they had 
moved to a location around the corner, the parking garage of 
the Hall of Legends, I believe. So, we quickly drove over 
there. We drove down into the parking garage and filmed the 
scene of Mr. Tarrio and Mr. Rhodes and certain other 
individuals in that garage.
    We then continued to follow Mr. Tarrio. There was some 
discussion about where he was going to go. He ended up going 
toward a hotel in Baltimore, and we conducted an interview with 
him in the hotel room.
    Then we returned to DC for that night in a--and what was 
interesting that night, actually, was, that was the first 
indication that DC was much more busy than it had been any 
other time we had been here, because we couldn't get into the 
hotels we wanted to, and we ended up at a hotel that, you know, 
was not as satisfactory as we would have hoped.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you. So, what you are saying is, 
you filmed the meeting between Mr. Tarrio and Oath Keepers 
leader Stewart Rhodes, right?
    Mr. Quested. Indeed.
    Chairman Thompson. You couldn't hear what was said, but, 
according to the Justice Department indictment of Mr. Tarrio, a 
participant referenced the Capitol.
    Now, on the morning of January 6th, you learned the Proud 
Boys would gather near the rally scheduled to take place near 
the White House. What time did you meet up with the Proud Boys, 
and what was happening when they met?
    Mr. Quested. We met up with the Proud Boys somewhere around 
10:30 a.m., and they were starting to walk down The Mall in an 
easterly direction toward the Capitol.
    There was a large contingent, more than I had expected. I 
was confused, to a certain extent, why we were walking away 
from the President's speech, because that is what I felt we 
were there to cover.
    Chairman Thompson. So, at 10:30 a.m., that is early in the 
day. That is even before President Trump had started speaking. 
Am I correct?
    Mr. Quested. Yes, sir.
    Chairman Thompson. So, how many Proud Boys would you 
estimate were marching together to the Capitol?
    Mr. Quested. A couple of hundred, potentially. Yes, I would 
say a couple of hundred Proud Boys were marching toward the 
Capitol at that point.
    Chairman Thompson. At the time, was the area heavily 
guarded?
    Mr. Quested. No. That was--I remember we walked past the--
we walked down The Mall, we walked to the right of the 
Reflecting Pool and then north along the road that leads to the 
Peace Circle. As we were walking past the Peace Circle, I 
framed the Proud Boys to the right of my shot, with the Capitol 
behind, and we see one sole police officer at the barriers, 
which are subsequently breached.
    We then walk up and past a tactical unit preparing. You see 
that in the film, where the man questions their duty and their 
honor, and you see maybe a dozen Capitol Police putting on 
their riot gear.
    Chairman Thompson. So, how would you describe the 
atmosphere at that time?
    Mr. Quested. The atmosphere was--it seemed to be much 
darker. I make efforts to create familiarity between myself and 
my subjects to, you know, make them feel comfortable, and the 
atmosphere was much darker this day than it had been in these 
other days.
    There was also a contingent of Proud Boys that I hadn't met 
before from Arizona who appeared to wear these orange hats and 
had orange armbands.
    Chairman Thompson. So, when the Proud Boys went back down 
the hill to the Peace Circle, did a larger crowd start to 
gather?
    Mr. Quested. Well, no, first of all, we went around to the 
back and down the steps, and we took some photographs on the 
east side of the Capitol. Then we went for lunch. We went for 
tacos.
    Chairman Thompson. So, Mr. Quested, you are a journalist, 
so you are careful to stick to things that you have observed, 
but what you have told us is highly relevant.
    Let me highlight a few key facts that you and others have 
provided the Committee.
    First, there was a large group of Proud Boys present at the 
Capitol. We know that from multiple sources. You now estimate 
that there were around 250 to 300 individuals, you have 
testified. They weren't there for President Trump's speech. We 
know this because they left that area to march toward the 
Capitol before the speech began.
    They walked around the Capitol that morning. I am concerned 
this allowed them to see what defenses were in place and where 
weaknesses might be. They decided to launch their attack at the 
Peace Circle, which is a front door of the Capitol complex.
    It is the first security perimeter that those marching from 
the Ellipse would have to come to as they move toward the 
Capitol. The Peace Circle walkway was always where the 
thousands of angry Trump supporters would arrive after 
President Trump sent them from the Ellipse.
    The Proud Boys timed their attack to the moments before the 
start of the joint session in the Capitol, which is also where 
President Trump directed the angry mob. ``We fight like hell,'' 
he told them before sending them down Pennsylvania Avenue right 
to where the Proud Boys gathered and where you were filming.
    Now, a central question is whether the attack on the 
Capitol was coordinated and planned. What you witnessed is what 
a coordinated and planned effort would look like. It was the 
culmination of a months-long effort spearheaded by President 
Trump.
    Mr. Quested, thank you for your eyewitness account of the 
lead-up to the breach of the Peace Circle.
    This brings us to a point in time where you and Officer 
Edwards were in close proximity.
    At this point, I reserve the balance of my time.
    Pursuant to section 5(c)(8) of House Resolution 503, the 
Chair recognizes gentlewoman from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for 
questioning.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Officer Edwards, I want to start by thanking you for your 
service and thank you for your courage. Thank you for being 
here this evening.
    I know that it is not easy to relive what happened, for you 
and for the officers behind you and for the family members of 
the officers in the audience this evening, but it is really 
important for the country to have a full accounting and 
understand what happened.
    I want to start, Officer Edwards, with a short clip that 
shows the horrible moment when you were injured as the Peace 
Circle was breached.
    [Video of the attack on Officer Edwards shown.]
    Vice Chair Cheney. Officer Edwards, can you describe the 
crowd that had assembled at the Peace Circle as you and your 
fellow officers stood behind and guarded the bike racks at the 
Peace Circle?
    Officer Edwards. Yes.
    So, there were about, I want to say, about five of us on 
that line. There were, so there was our bike rack, and then at 
the bottom of the Pennsylvania Avenue walkway or right by Peace 
Circle, there was another bike rack. So, the crowd had kind-of 
gathered there. It was the crowd led by Joseph Biggs.
    They were mostly in civilian clothes. There were some who 
had military fatigues on. We could see people with bullet-proof 
vests on, you know, things like that. They didn't seem, you 
know, extremely cohesive, but they had gathered there in their 
outfits.
    But they had gathered there together, and Joseph Biggs 
started, he had a megaphone, and he started talking about, you 
know, first it was things kind-of relating to Congress. Then 
the table started turning once the, what is now the Arizona 
group, is what you said, the crowd with the orange hats, they 
came up chanting, ``F-u-c-k Antifa,'' and they joined that 
group.
    Once they joined that group, Joseph Biggs's rhetoric turned 
to the Capitol Police. He started asking us questions like, 
``You didn't miss a paycheck during the pandemic,'' mentioning 
stuff about--our pay scale was mentioned--and, you know, 
started turning the tables on us.
    I have worked, I can, you know, conservatively say, 
probably hundreds of civil disturbance events. I know when I am 
being turned into a villain. That is when I turned to my 
sergeant, and I stated the understatement of the century. I 
said, ``Sarge, I think we are going to need a few more people 
down here.''
    So, after that, you know, I think they started conferring. 
They went a little silent; they started conferring among each 
other. I saw the person now identified as Ryan Samsel. He put 
his arm around Joseph Biggs, and they were talking. Then they 
started approaching the first barricade. They ripped the first 
barricade down, and they approached our bike racks.
    You know, at that time, we started holding on, grabbing the 
bike racks. You know, there weren't many of us, so I grabbed 
the middle between two different bike racks. You know, I wasn't 
under any pretense that I could hold it for very long, but I 
just wanted to, you know, make sure that we could get more 
people down and get our CDU units time to answer the call.
    So, we started grappling over the bike racks. I felt the 
bike rack come on top of my head, and I was pushed backward. My 
foot caught the stair behind me, and my chin hit the handrail. 
Then I--at that point I had blacked out, but the back of my 
head clipped the concrete stairs behind me.
    Vice Chair Cheney. You were knocked unconscious; is that 
right, Officer Edwards?
    Officer Edwards. Yes, ma'am.
    Vice Chair Cheney. But then, when you regained 
consciousness, even with the injuries, you returned to duty. Is 
that right?
    Officer Edwards. Yes, ma'am. You know, at that time, 
adrenaline kicked in. I ran toward the West Front, and I tried 
to hold the line at the Senate steps at the Lower West Terrace.
    More people kept coming at us. It just seemed like, you 
know, more and more people started, you know, coming onto the 
West Front. They started overpowering us.
    That was right about when MPD's officers showed up. Their 
bike officers pushed the crowd back and allowed our CDU units, 
as well as theirs, to form that line that you see, that very 
thin line between us and the protesters, or the rioters, you 
know, at that time.
    I fell behind that line. For a while, I started 
decontaminating people who had gotten sprayed and treating 
people medically who needed it.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Then you were injured again, there on 
the West Terrace. Is that right, Officer Edwards?
    Officer Edwards. Yes, ma'am.
    So, after a while, I got back on the line. It was on the 
House side of the Lower West Terrace, and I was holding that 
line for a while. There weren't many of us over there. Officer 
Sicknick was behind me for most of the time, for about 30 to 45 
minutes that I was down there. We were just--as the best we 
could, we were just, you know, grappling over bike racks and 
trying to hold them as quick as possible.
    All of a sudden, I see movement to the left of me, and I 
turned, and it was Officer Sicknick with his head in his hands. 
He was ghostly pale, which--I figured at that point that he had 
been sprayed, and I was concerned. My, you know, cop alarm 
bells went off. Because if you get sprayed with pepper spray, 
you are going to turn red. He turned just about as pale as this 
sheet of paper.
    So, I looked back to see what had hit him, what had 
happened, and that is when I got sprayed in the eyes as well. I 
was taken to be decontaminated by another officer, but we 
didn't get the chance because we were then tear-gassed.
    Vice Chair Cheney. We are going to play just a brief clip 
of that moment that you have just described, Officer Edwards.
    [Video of the moment Officer Edwards was tear-gassed 
shown.]
    Vice Chair Cheney. Officer Edwards, I just want to thank 
you for being here. I know, again, how difficult it is. I know 
the family of Officer Sicknick, as well, is here tonight.
    One of the things one of the Capitol Police officers said 
to me recently was to ask me whether or not, as Members of 
Congress, all of us understood that on that day, on January 
6th, when we were evacuated from the Chamber, were led to a 
safe, undisclosed location, whether we knew that so many of you 
had rushed out of the building and into the fight. I can assure 
you that we do know that and that we understand how important 
your service is.
    Thank you for your continued work with our Committee and 
the interviews.
    Thank you very much, for both of you, for being here this 
evening.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you very much.
    Ms. Edwards, can you give us one memory of that awful day 
that stands out most vividly in your mind?
    Officer Edwards. I can.
    That time when I talked about falling behind MPD's line, I 
remember--because I had been kind-of shielded away, because I 
was holding those stairs, so I wasn't able to really see what 
was going on over here. When I fell behind that line and I saw, 
I can just remember my breath catching in my throat, because 
what I saw was just a war scene. It was something like I had 
seen out of the movies. I couldn't believe my eyes.
    There were officers on the ground. You know, they were 
bleeding, they were throwing up, they were, you know, they had, 
I mean, I saw friends with blood all over their faces. I was 
slipping in people's blood. You know, I was catching people as 
they fell.
    It was carnage. It was chaos. I can't even describe what I 
saw.
    Never in my wildest dreams did I think that, as a police 
officer, as a law enforcement officer, I would find myself in 
the middle of a battle. You know, I am trained to detain, you 
know, a couple of subjects and, you know, handle a crowd, but I 
am not combat trained. That day, it was just hours of hand-to-
hand combat, hours of dealing with things that were way beyond 
what any law enforcement officer has ever trained for.
    I just remember, I just remember that moment of stepping 
behind the line and just seeing the absolute war zone that the 
West Front had become.
    Chairman Thompson. Let me thank you for your service and 
obviously your bravery that you have told the world about 
tonight. It is unfortunate that you had to defend the Capitol 
from fellow Americans. None of us would ever think that that 
would have to happen, but it did.
    So let me thank our witnesses for joining us tonight and 
sharing their experiences with America.
    Throughout my chairmanship of this Committee, I have 
continuously vowed that this Committee will ensure a 
comprehensive account of the heroic acts on January 6th and 
that we will follow the facts wherever they lead. Your 
testimony is an essential part of that record and helps us do 
our job.
    Mr. Quested, thank you for sharing your footage and your 
account of the day's events with us. The images you recorded 
and have shared with the Committee do a better job than any of 
our words in reinforcing the violence of January 6th. We hope 
that the power of your footage helps encourage all Americans to 
consider how citizens with so much in common could viciously 
brawl at the seat of their democratic government.
    Officer Edwards, thank you for your brave service, as I 
indicated, on January 6th and all you did to protect us and, 
most importantly, our democracy. If you and your fellow 
officers hadn't held the line against those violent 
insurrectionists, we can only imagine the disaster that would 
have ensued.
    Your heroism in the face of danger is admirable, and your 
will to continue to protect and serve, despite your serious 
injuries, should be an inspiration to all of us. We wish you a 
continued recovery and look forward to seeing you back in 
uniform sometime soon.
    The Members of the Select Committee may have additional 
questions for tonight's witnesses, and we ask that you respond 
expeditiously in writing to those questions.
    Without objection, Members will be permitted 10 business 
days to submit statements for the record, including opening 
remarks and additional questions for the witnesses.
    The witnesses have just told us what they heard the rioters 
saying, why they stormed the Capitol on that day. Now we are 
going to hear it from the rioters themselves.
    Without objection, I include in the record a video 
presentation.

    Voice. We were invited by the President of the United States.
    Mr. Schornack. What really made me want to come was the fact that, 
you know, I had supported Trump all that time. I did believe, you know, 
that the election was being stolen. And Trump asked us to come.
    Mr. Barber. He personally asked for us to come to DC that day. And 
I thought, for everything he's done for us, if this is the only thing 
he's going to ask of me, I'll do it.
    President Trump. We're going to walk down to the Capitol.
    Mr. Childress. Do you recall President Trump mentioning going to 
the Capitol during his speech?
    Mr. Barber. Oh, yeah. So, that's one of my disappointments. He said 
he was going to go, go with us, that he was going to be there.
    Mr. Wright. I know why I was there, and that's because he called me 
there, and he laid out what is happening in our government. He laid it 
out.
    Mr. Meza. But I remember Donald Trump telling people to be there, 
I--I mean, to support.
    Mr. Sasso. So, you mentioned that the President--that the President 
asked you. Do you remember a specific message?
    Mr. Herendeen. Basically, yeah--yes, for us to come to DC, that big 
things are going to happen.
    Mr. Walter. What got me interested, he said I have something very 
important to say on January 6th, or something like that is what got--
what got me interested to be there.
    Mr. Schornack. You know, Trump has only asked me for two things. He 
asked me for my vote, and he asked me to come on January 6th.

    Chairman Thompson. When the Committee reconvenes next week, 
we are going to examine the lies that convinced those men and 
others to storm the Capitol to try to stop the transfer of 
power. We are going to take a close look at the first part of 
Trump's attack on the rule of law, when he lit the fuse that 
ultimately resulted in the violence of January 6th.
    Without objection, and with that, the Committee stands 
adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 9:54 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.]



                            A P P E N D I X

                              ----------                              

 Prepared Statement of Officer Caroline Edwards, U.S. Capitol Police, 
                             Washington, DC
                              June 9, 2022
    I was called a lot of things on January 6, 2021 and the days 
thereafter. I was called Nancy Pelosi's dog, called incompetent, called 
a hero and a villain. I was called a traitor to my country, my oath, 
and my Constitution. In actuality, I was none of those things.
    I was an American standing face-to-face with other Americans asking 
myself many times how we had gotten here. I had been called names 
before, but never had my patriotism or duty been called into question. 
I, who got up every day, no matter how early the hour or how late I got 
in the night before, to put on my uniform and protect America's symbol 
of democracy. I, who spent countless hours in the baking sun and 
freezing snow to make sure America's elected officials were able to do 
their job. I, whose literal blood, sweat, and tears were shed that day 
defending the building that I spent countless holidays and weekends 
working in.
    I am the proud granddaughter of a Marine that battled in the Chosin 
reservoir in the Korean War. I think of my Papa often in these days, 
how he was so young and thrown into a battle he never saw coming, and 
answered the call at great personal cost. How he lived the rest of his 
days with bullets and shrapnel in his legs, but never once complained 
about his sacrifice. I would like to think that he would be proud of 
me, proud that his granddaughter stood her ground that day and 
continued fighting even though she was wounded, like he did many years 
ago. I am my grandfather's granddaughter, proud to put on a uniform and 
serve my country.
    They dared to question my honor. They dared to question my loyalty. 
They dared to question my duty. I am a proud American, and I will 
gladly sacrifice everything to make sure that the America my 
grandfather defended is here for many years to come.
    Thank you.
                                 ______
                                 
Prepared Statement of Nick Quested, Documentary Filmmaker, New York, NY
    I am a British-born legal resident of the United States. I received 
my Bachelor of Fine Arts from New York University in 1992. I am an 
artist and an independent filmmaker. I have directed hundreds of music 
videos and have produced upwards of 40 documentaries. I have won an 
Emmy and a Dupont Columbia Award, and I have produced an Oscar-
nominated film.
    Much of my work in the last 20 years has revolved around conflict. 
I have filmed documentaries dealing with war and areas in conflict such 
as Restrepo, Korengal, The Last Patrol, Hell on Earth: The Fall of 
Syria and the Rise of ISIS, and most recently, Blood on the Wall.
    I testified before this Committee on June 9, 2022, because in 
December 2020 and January 2021, I was filming a documentary in 
Washington, DC about ``why Americans are so divided when Americans have 
so much in common.'' I had started working on this film in the summer 
of 2020 when I observed what America was experiencing. As part of that 
documentary, I interviewed and spoke with groups such as Antifa and the 
Proud Boys. I filmed several rallies in Washington, DC on December 11 
and December 12, 2020, and began filming several of the groups 
spearheading those rallies such as the Proud Boys and the Oath Keepers.
    I learned there would be a rally on the National Mall on January 6, 
2021, and three colleagues and I came to document the rally. We 
traveled from New York to Washington, DC on January 5, 2021, and we 
started filming when we were invited to document a Proud Boy, Enrique 
Tarrio's release from Government custody. On January 5, 2022, we 
documented Mr. Tarrio as he retrieved his property from the 
Metropolitan Police Department, retrieved his luggage from a 
Washington, DC Hotel, participated in a meeting in an underground 
parking garage, and traveled to a hotel in Baltimore. After documenting 
those events, we returned to Washington, DC.
    On January 6, 2021, my colleagues and I headed to the Mall for the 
rally. According to the permit for the event, there was to be a rally 
at the Ellipse. I arrived as a group was heading west on the Mall. I 
observed a large contingent of Proud Boys marching toward the Capitol. 
I filmed the crowd walking toward Capitol Hill. Almost immediately, I 
was separated from my colleagues. I documented the crowd turn from 
protesters to insurrectionists. I was surprised at the size of the 
group, the anger, and the profanity. I experienced pepper spray, 
violent surging, and acts of violence, and I heard aggressive chanting.
    My goal as an independent journalist is always to prioritize truth 
and to let people speak for themselves rather than to interpret events 
for my audience. The clips of my footage that were shown to the world 
on June 9, 2022, were a snapshot of what we saw occur on January 6, 
2021. I hope my footage and the subsequent documentary will help people 
understand and visualize what occurred on that date. It is important 
for Americans to see the unvarnished truth of what happened for 
themselves. The events I captured on film leading up to January 6, and 
the January 6 attacks themselves, shook me.

                                 [all]
[House Hearing, 117 Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

=======================================================================


                                HEARING

                               BEFORE THE

                          SELECT COMMITTEE TO
                      INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH
                             ATTACK ON THE
                         UNITED STATES CAPITOL

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               __________

                             JUNE 16, 2022

                               __________

                            Serial No. 117-4

                               __________

Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
                6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                                     

[GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
                                     

        Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov

                               __________
                               

                    U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE                    
49-351 PDF                 WASHINGTON : 2022                     
          
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
 
 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE UNITED 
                             STATES CAPITOL

               Bennie G. Thompson, Mississippi, Chairman
                    Liz Cheney, Wyoming, Vice Chair
                        Zoe Lofgren, California
                       Adam B. Schiff, California
                        Pete Aguilar, California
                      Stephanie N. Murphy, Florida
                         Jamie Raskin, Maryland
                       Elaine G. Luria, Virginia
                        Adam Kinzinger, Illinois
                           
                           COMMITTEE STAFF

                    David B. Buckley, Staff Director
      Kristin L. Amerling, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
             Timothy J. Heaphy, Chief Investigative Counsel
                  Hope Goins, Counsel to the Chairman
                      Jamie Fleet, Senior Advisor
          Joseph B. Maher, Senior Counselor to the Vice Chair
               Timothy R. Mulvey, Communications Director
           Candyce Phoenix, Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor

Katherine B. Abrams, Staff           Thomas E. Joscelyn, Senior 
    Associate                            Professional Staff Member
Temidayo Aganga-Williams, Senior     Rebecca L. Knooihuizen, Financial 
    Investigative Counsel                Investigator
Alejandra Apecechea, Investigative   Casey E. Lucier, Investigative 
    Counsel                              Counsel
Lisa A. Bianco, Director of Member   Damon M. Marx, Professional Staff 
    Services and Security Manager        Member
Jerome P. Bjelopera, Investigator    Evan B. Mauldin, Chief Clerk
Bryan Bonner, Investigative Counsel  Yonatan L. Moskowitz, Senior 
Richard R. Bruno, Senior                 Counsel
    Administrative Assistant         Hannah G. Muldavin, Deputy 
Marcus Childress, Investigative          Communications Director
    Counsel                          Jonathan D. Murray, Professional 
John Marcus Clark, Security              Staff Member
    Director                         Jacob A. Nelson, Professional 
Jacqueline N. Colvett, Digital           Staff Member
    Director                         Elizabeth Obrand, Staff Associate
Heather I. Connelly, Professional    Raymond O'Mara, Director of 
    Staff Member                         External Affairs
Meghan E. Conroy, Investigator       Elyes Ouechtati, Technology 
Heather L. Crowell, Printer              Partner
    Proofreader                      Robin M. Peguero, Investigative 
William C. Danvers, Senior               Counsel
    Researcher                       Sandeep A. Prasanna, Investigative 
Soumyalatha O. Dayananda, Senior         Counsel
    Investigative Counsel            Barry Pump, Parliamentarian
Stephen W. DeVine, Senior Counsel    Sean M. Quinn, Investigative 
Lawrence J. Eagleburger,                 Counsel
    Professional Staff Member        Brittany M. J. Record, Senior 
Kevin S. Elliker, Investigative          Counsel
    Counsel                          Joshua D. Roselman, Investigative 
Margaret E. Emamzadeh, Staff             Counsel
    Associate                        James N. Sasso, Investigative 
Sadallah A. Farah, Professional          Counsel
    Staff Member                     Grant H. Saunders, Professional 
Daniel A. George, Senior                 Staff Member
    Investigative Counsel            Samantha O. Stiles, Chief 
Jacob H. Glick, Investigative            Administrative Officer
    Counsel                          Sean P. Tonolli, Senior 
Aaron S. Greene, Clerk                   Investigative Counsel
Marc S. Harris, Senior               David A. Weinberg, Senior 
    Investigative Counsel                Professional Staff Member
Alice K. Hayes, Clerk                Amanda S. Wick, Senior 
Quincy T. Henderson, Staff               Investigative Counsel
    Assistant                        Darrin L. Williams, Jr., Staff 
Camisha L. Johnson, Professional         Assistant
    Staff Member                     John F. Wood, Senior Investigative 
                                         Counsel
                                     Zachary S. Wood, Clerk
                      
                      CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS

                             Rawaa Alobaidi
                             Melinda Arons
                              Steve Baker
                            Elizabeth Bisbee
                              David Canady
                             John Coughlin
                             Aaron Dietzen
                              Gina Ferrise
                           Angel Goldsborough
                             James Goldston
                              Polly Grube
                          L. Christine Healey
                             Danny Holladay
                              Percy Howard
                              Dean Jackson
                           Stephanie J. Jones
                              Hyatt Mamoun
                               Mary Marsh
                               Todd Mason
                              Ryan Mayers
                              Jeff McBride
                               Fred Muram
                             Alex Newhouse
                              John Norton
                             Orlando Pinder
                               Owen Pratt
                              Dan Pryzgoda
                              Brian Sasser
                            William Scherer
                              Driss Sekkat
                              Chris Stuart
                            Preston Sullivan
                              Brian Young

                           Innovative Driven
                           
                           C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page

                               Statements

The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee 
  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
  Capitol........................................................     1
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to 
  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol     2
The Honorable Pete Aguilar, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California............................................     3

                               Witnesses

Mr. Greg Jacob, Former Counsel to Vice President Mike Pence......     5
The Honorable J. Michael Luttig, Retired Judge for the U.S. Court 
  of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit and Informal Advisor to Mike 
  Pence..........................................................     6

 
                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

                              ----------                              


                        Thursday, June 16, 2022

                     U.S. House of Representatives,
 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
                                 the United States Capitol,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 1:02 p.m., in 
room 390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson 
[Chairman of the Committee] presiding.
    Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger.
    Chairman Thompson. The Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in 
order.
    Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the 
Committee in recess at any point.
    Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 10, the 
Chair announces the Committee's approval to release the 
deposition material presented during today's hearing.
    Good afternoon.
    ``There is no idea more un-American than the notion that 
any one person could choose the American President.''
    ``No idea more un-American.'' I agree with that--which is 
unusual because former Vice President Mike Pence and I don't 
agree on much.
    These are his words, spoken a few months ago about Donald 
Trump's attempt to pressure the former Vice President--pressure 
him into going along with an unlawful and un-Constitutional 
scheme to overturn the 2020 election and give Donald Trump a 
second term in office that he did not win.
    Today, the Select Committee is going to reveal the details 
of that pressure campaign.
    But what does the Vice President of the United States even 
have to do with a Presidential election? The Constitution says 
that the Vice President of the United States oversees the 
process of counting the electoral college votes, a process that 
took place on January 6, 2021.
    Donald Trump wanted Mike Pence to do something no other 
Vice President has ever done. The former President wanted Pence 
to reject the votes and either declare Trump the winner or send 
the votes back to the States to be counted again.
    Mike Pence said no. He resisted the pressure. He knew it 
was illegal. He knew it was wrong. We are fortunate for Mr. 
Pence's courage on January 6th. Our democracy came dangerously 
close to catastrophe.
    That courage put him in tremendous danger. When Mike Pence 
made it clear that he wouldn't give in to Donald Trump's 
scheme, Donald Trump turned a mob on him--a mob that was 
chanting ``Hang Mike Pence,'' a mob that had built a hangman's 
gallows just outside the Capitol.
    Thanks in part to Mike Pence, our democracy withstood 
Donald Trump's scheme and the violence of January 6th. But the 
danger hasn't receded. Led by my colleague Mr. Aguilar, today 
we will lay out the facts for the American people.
    But, first, I will recognize my colleague from Wyoming, Ms. 
Cheney, for any opening statement she would care to offer.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Let me take just a few minutes today to put the topic of 
our hearing in broader context.
    In our last hearing, we heard unequivocal testimony that 
President Trump was told his election fraud allegations were 
complete nonsense. We heard this from members of the Trump 
campaign. We heard this from President Trump's campaign 
lawyers. We heard this from President Trump's former Attorney 
General, Bill Barr. We heard this from President Trump's former 
Acting Attorney General, Jeff Rosen. We heard this from 
President Trump's former Acting Deputy Attorney General, 
Richard Donoghue. We heard from members of President Trump's 
White House staff as well.
    Today, we are focusing on President Trump's relentless 
effort to pressure Mike Pence to refuse to count electoral 
votes on January 6th.
    Here, again, is how the former Vice President phrased it in 
a speech before the Federalist Society, a group of conservative 
lawyers.

    Vice President Pence. I heard this week that President Trump said I 
had the right to overturn the election. But President Trump is wrong. I 
had no right to overturn the election. The Presidency belongs to the 
American people and the American people alone. And frankly, there is no 
idea more un-American than the notion that any one person could choose 
the American President.

    Vice Chair Cheney. What the President wanted the Vice 
President to do was not just wrong; it was illegal and un-
Constitutional.
    We will hear many details in today's hearing, but please 
consider these two points:
    First, President Trump was told repeatedly that Mike Pence 
lacked the Constitutional and legal authority to do what 
President Trump was demanding he do.
    This is testimony from Marc Short, the Vice President's 
chief of staff, who served in the Trump administration in 
multiple positions over 4 years.

    Mr. Heaphy. But just to pick up on that, Mr. Short, is it--was it 
your impression that the Vice President had directly conveyed his 
position on these issues to the President, not just to the world 
through a Dear Colleague letter, but directly to President Trump?
    Mr. Short. Many times.
    Mr. Heaphy. And he'd been consistent in conveying his position to 
the President?
    Mr. Short. Very consistent.
    Mr. Heaphy. Okay.

    Vice Chair Cheney. But President Trump plotted with a 
lawyer named John Eastman to pressure Pence to do so anyway.
    As a Federal court has explained, ``Based on the evidence, 
the Court finds that it is more likely than not that President 
Trump and Dr. Eastman dishonestly conspired to obstruct the 
Joint Session of Congress on January 6, 2021.''
    What exactly did President Trump know? When exactly did 
President Trump know that it would be illegal for Mike Pence to 
refuse to count electoral votes?
    Here is one sample of testimony given by one of the 
witnesses before us today, the Vice President's general 
counsel.

    Mr. Wood. Did John Eastman ever admit, as far as you know, in front 
of the President that his proposal would violate the Electoral Count 
Act?
    Mr. Jacob. I believe he did on the 4th.

    Vice Chair Cheney. That was January 4th, 2 days before the 
attack on Congress.
    A second point: Please listen to testimony today about all 
of the ways that President Trump attempted to pressure Vice 
President Pence, including Donald Trump's tweet at 2:24 p.m. 
condemning Vice President Mike Pence when President Trump 
already knew a violent riot was under way at the Capitol.
    In future hearings, you will hear from witnesses who were 
present inside the White House, who were present inside the 
West Wing on that day. But, today, we focus on the earnest 
efforts of Mike Pence, who was determined to abide by his oath 
of office.
    As Vice President Pence prepared a statement on January 5th 
and 6th explaining that he could not illegally refuse to count 
electoral votes, he said this to his staff:

    Mr. Jacob. I mean, the Vice President had said, ``This may be the 
most important thing I ever say.''
    Mr. Heaphy. ``This,'' meaning the statement?
    Mr. Jacob. The statement. And he really wanted to make sure that it 
was just so.

    Vice Chair Cheney. You will hear today that President 
Trump's White House Counsel believed that the Vice President 
did exactly the right thing on January 6th, as did others in 
the White House, as did Fox News Host Sean Hannity.
    Vice President Pence understood that his oath of office was 
more important than his loyalty to Donald Trump. He did his 
duty. President Trump unequivocally did not.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, I recognize the 
gentleman from California, Mr. Aguilar, for an opening 
statement.
    Mr. Aguilar. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Today we intend to show the American people that January 
6th was not an isolated incident. In the weeks culminating 
before, it was a legal scheme and deception.
    We have already learned that President Trump knew he lost 
the 2020 election. Shortly after, he began to look for a way to 
circumvent our country's most fundamental civic tradition: The 
peaceful transfer of power.
    The President latched on to a dangerous theory and would 
not let go, because he was convinced it would keep him in 
office.
    We witnessed first-hand what happened when the President of 
the United States weaponized this theory. The Capitol was 
overrun. Police officers lost their lives. The Vice President 
was taken to a secure location because his safety was in 
jeopardy.
    Let's take a look at the effect of Donald Trump's words and 
actions. I want to warn our audience that the video contains 
explicit content.

    President Trump. Mike Pence is going to have to come through for 
us. And if he doesn't, that will be a--a sad day for our country.
    And Mike Pence, I hope you're going to stand up for the good of our 
Constitution and for the good of our country. And if you're not, I'm 
going to be very disappointed in you, I will tell you right now.
    Voice. I'm telling you what, I'm hearing that Pence--hearing that 
Pence just caved.
    Voice. No.
    Voice. Is that true?
    Voice. I didn't hear it.
    Voice. I'm hear--I'm hearing reports that Pence caved.
    Voice. No way.
    Voice. I'm telling you, if Pence caved, we're going to drag 
motherfuckers through the streets. You fucking politicians are going to 
get fucking drug through the streets.
    Voice. Yes.
    Voice. I guess the hope is that there's such a show of force here 
that Pence will decide to----
    Voice. Just do his job.
    Voice [continuing]. Do the right thing, according to Trump.
    Crowd. Where is Pence? Bring him out! Bring out Pence! Bring him 
out! Bring out Pence! Bring him out! Bring out Pence!
    Crowd. Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike 
Pence! Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike 
Pence! Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike Pence!

    Mr. Aguilar. How did we get to this point? How did we get 
to the point where President Trump's most radical supporters 
led a violent attack on the Capitol and threatened to hang 
President Trump's own Vice President?
    You will hear from witnesses that Donald Trump pressured 
Mike Pence to adopt a legally and morally bankrupt idea that 
the Vice President could choose who the next President can be.
    You will hear about how the Vice President, the White House 
Counsel, and others told Donald Trump that the Vice President 
had no such authority, but President Trump would not listen.
    You will hear how Vice President Pence withstood an 
onslaught of pressure from President Trump, both publicly and 
privately--a pressure campaign that built to a fever pitch with 
a heated phone call on January 6th.
    You will also hear that the President knew there was a 
violent mob at the Capitol when he tweeted at 2:24 p.m. that 
the Vice President did not have the ``courage'' to do what 
needed to be done.
    Let me be clear: Vice President Pence did the right thing 
that day. He stayed true to his oath to protect and defend the 
Constitution.
    I look forward to hearing from our witnesses this 
afternoon.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you, Mr. Aguilar.
    We are honored to have two distinguished witnesses who 
advised the Vice President regarding his role on January 6th.
    Judge J. Michael Luttig is one of the leading conservative 
legal thinkers in the country. He served in the administrations 
of President Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. He was 
appointed by the latter to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Fourth Circuit, where he served from 1991 to 2006.
    He provided critical advice for Vice President Pence 
regarding the role of the Vice President in the joint session 
of Congress shortly before that fateful moment.
    He has written that the Vice President does not have the 
power to select the next President of the United States. He has 
also written that the contrary theory, espoused by one of his 
own former law clerks, was ``incorrect at every turn.''
    We are also joined today by one of the people who was with 
Vice President Pence on January 6th. Greg Jacob was counsel to 
Vice President Pence.
    He conducted a thorough analysis of the role of the Vice 
President in the joint session of Congress under the 
Constitution, the Electoral Count Act, and 230 years of 
historical practice.
    But he also has first-hand information about the attack on 
the Capitol because he lived through it. He was with the Vice 
President, and his own life was in danger.
    I will now swear in our witnesses. The witnesses will 
please stand and raise their right hands.
    [Witnesses sworn.]
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you. You may be seated.
    Let the record reflect the witnesses answered in the 
affirmative.
    I now recognize myself for questions.
    In the United States, the people choose our 
representatives, including the highest official in the land, 
the President of the United States. The American people did 
this on November 3, 2020.
    But President Trump did not like the outcome. He did 
everything he could to change the result of the election.
    He tried litigation--62 cases, in fact--and that failed.
    He tried to pressure State legislatures to reverse the 
results of the election in their States, but they refused.
    He tried to enlist the Department of Justice in his efforts 
to overturn election results, but officials leading the 
Department refused to comply.
    So, eventually, he latched on to a completely nonsensical 
and antidemocratic theory that one man, his own Vice President, 
could determine the outcome of the election. He wanted the Vice 
President to unilaterally select the President.
    This theory, that the Vice President could unilaterally 
select the President, runs completely contrary to our 
Constitution, our laws, and the entirety of our American 
experience. But that didn't matter to President Trump.
    I would now like to explore how President Trump came to 
latch onto this ridiculous legal theory that the Vice President 
can select the President of the United States.
    Mr. Jacob, how did this theory first come to your 
attention?
    Mr. Jacob. The first time that I had a conversation with 
the Vice President about the 12th Amendment and the Electoral 
Count Act was in early December, around December 7th.
    The Vice President called me over to his West Wing office 
and told me that he had been seeing and reading things that 
suggested that he had a significant role to play on January 6th 
in announcing the outcome of the election.
    He told me that he had been first elected to Congress in 
2000 and that one of his earliest memories as a Congressman was 
sitting in on the 2001 certification, and he recalled that Al 
Gore had gaveled down a number of objections that had been 
raised to Florida.
    He asked me, ``Mechanically, how does this work at the 
joint session? What are the rules?''
    I told the Vice President that, in fact, I had a fairly 
good idea of how things worked, that actually there aren't 
rules that govern the joint session, but what there is is a 
provision of the Constitution that is just one sentence long 
and then an Electoral Count Act that had been passed in 1887.
    I told the Vice President that I could put a memo together 
for him overnight that would explain the applicable rules.
    Chairman Thompson. So, Mr. Jacob, when you looked at this 
theory, what did you conclude?
    Mr. Jacob. So, we concluded that what you have is a 
sentence in the Constitution that is inartfully drafted. But 
the Vice President's first instinct, when he heard this theory, 
was that there was no way that our Framers, who abhorred 
concentrated power, who had broken away from the tyranny of 
George III, would ever have put one person--particularly not a 
person who had a direct interest in the outcome because they 
were on the ticket for the election--in a role to have decisive 
impact on the outcome of the election.
    Our review of text, history, and, frankly, just common 
sense, all confirmed the Vice President's first instinct on 
that point. There is no justifiable basis to conclude that the 
Vice President has that kind of authority.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you, Mr. Jacob.
    We will hear more today about how, despite this conclusion 
by you and other top legal advisors, the former President used 
this discredited theory in his campaign to pressure the Vice 
President to decide the outcome of the Presidential election.
    I now recognize the gentlewoman from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, 
for questions.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Judge Luttig, thank you, as well, for being here with us 
today.
    You issued a very important statement earlier today, which 
I urge all Americans to read. I would like to ask you, Judge, 
about one of the sentences in your statement and ask if you 
could explain to us the significance of it.
    You say, ``Had the Vice President of the United States 
obeyed the President of the United States, America would 
immediately have been plunged into what would have been 
tantamount to a revolution within a paralyzing Constitutional 
crisis.''
    Would you elaborate on that for us, Judge?
    Judge Luttig. Thank you, Madam Vice Chair.
    That passage in my statement this morning referenced the 
most foundational concept in America, which is the rule of law. 
Thus, as I interpret your question, you are asking about that 
foundational truth of these United States which we call 
``America.''
    The foundational truth is the rule of law. That 
foundational truth is, for the United States of America, the 
profound truth.
    But it is not merely the profound truth for the United 
States; it is also the simple truth, the simple foundational 
truth of the American Republic.
    Thus, in my view, the hearings being conducted by this 
Select Committee are examining that profound truth--namely, the 
rule of law in the United States of America.
    The specific question, of course, before you and before the 
Nation--not before me--is whether that foundational rule of law 
was supremely violated on January 6, 2021.
    Now, to the question specifically that you asked, Madam 
Vice Chair, I believe that had Vice President Pence obeyed the 
orders from his President--and the President of the United 
States of America--during the joint session of the Congress of 
the United States on January 6, 2021, and declared Donald Trump 
the next President of the United States, notwithstanding that 
then-President Trump had lost the electoral college vote as 
well as the popular vote in the 2020 Presidential election, 
that declaration of Donald Trump as the next President would 
have plunged America into what I believe would have been 
tantamount to a revolution within a Constitutional crisis in 
America, which, in my view--and I am only one man--would have 
been the first Constitutional crisis since the founding of the 
Republic.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Judge, for your 
solemn attention to these issues and for your appearance here 
today.
    We are going to describe and discuss in detail what 
happened, and, as we do, I am going to describe a few of the 
details now of some of the actions taken by a gentleman named 
Kenneth Chesebro.
    After the electoral college met and cast their votes on 
December 14th--actually, the day before they met--Kenneth 
Chesebro sent a memo to Rudy Giuliani, the President's lead 
outside counsel.
    Mr. Chesebro wrote to Mayor Giuliani that the Vice 
President is charged with, ``making judgments about what to do 
if there are conflicting votes.''
    Mr. Chesebro wrote that, when the joint session of Congress 
got to Arizona in the alphabetical list of States, the Vice 
President should not count the Biden votes, ``because there are 
two slates of votes.''
    His justification, which we will learn more about in our 
next hearing, was that a group of Trump supporters in Arizona 
and other swing States decided to proclaim themselves the true 
electors for the State, creating two sets of electors--the 
official electors selected by the State and a group of fake 
electors.
    This document was ordered to be produced to the Select 
Committee by a Federal district court judge. As you will see on 
the screen shortly, Judge David Carter wrote, ``The draft memo 
pushed a strategy that knowingly violated the Electoral Count 
Act . . . ''
    The judge concluded that ``the memo is both intimately 
related to and clearly advanced the plan to obstruct the joint 
session of Congress on January 6, 2021.''
    A few days later, Professor John Eastman took up this 
cause. Eastman was at the time a law professor at Chapman 
University Law School.
    He prepared a memo outlining the nonsensical theory that 
the Vice President could decide the outcome of the election at 
the joint session of Congress on January 6th. You will see 
portions of this memo on the screen.
    In the first line, he wrote, ``7 States have transmitted 
dual slates of electors to the President of the Senate.''
    But Dr. Eastman goes on to rely on those so-called ``dual 
slates of electors'' to say that Vice President Pence could 
simply declare President Trump the winner of the 2020 election.
    Mr. Jacob, were there, in fact, dual slates of electors 
from 7 States?
    Mr. Jacob. No, there were not.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Just a few days after that, Dr. Eastman 
wrote another memo, this one ``war gaming'' out several 
scenarios. He knew the outcome he wanted, and he saw a way to 
go forward if he simply pretended that fake electors were real.
    You will see that memo up on the screen now.
    Here, Dr. Eastman says the Vice President can reject the 
Biden electors from the States that he calls ``disputed.'' 
Under several of the scenarios, the Vice President could 
ultimately just declare Donald Trump the winner, regardless of 
the vote totals that had already been certified by the States.
    However, this was false. Dr. Eastman knew it was false. In 
other words, it was a lie.
    In fact, on December 19, 2020, just 4 days before Dr. 
Eastman sent this memo, Dr. Eastman himself admitted in an 
email that the fake electors had no legal weight, referring to 
the fake electors as ``dead on arrival in Congress,'' because 
they did not have a certification from their States.
    Judge Luttig, did the Trump electors in those 7 States, who 
were not certified by any State authority, have any legal 
significance?
    Judge Luttig. Congresswoman, there was no support 
whatsoever in either the Constitution of the United States nor 
the laws of the United States for the Vice President, frankly, 
ever to count alternative electoral slates from the States that 
had not been officially certified by the designated State 
official in the Electoral Count Act of 1887.
    I did notice in the passage from Mr. Eastman's memorandum, 
and I took a note on it. Correct me if I am wrong, but he said 
in that passage that there was both legal authority as well as 
historical precedent.
    I do know what Mr. Eastman was referring to when he said 
that there was historical precedent for doing so. He was 
incorrect. There was no historical precedent from the beginning 
of the founding in 1789, even as mere historical precedent, as 
distinguished from legal precedent, that would support the 
possibility of the Vice President of the United States 
``counting'' alternative electoral slates that had not been 
officially certified to the Congress pursuant to the Electoral 
Count Act of 1887.
    I would be glad to explain that historical precedent if the 
Committee wanted, but it would be a digression.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Judge. I know my 
colleagues will be pursuing that issue in more depth.
    Now I would like to yield back, Mr. Chairman.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you very much.
    Pursuant to section 5(c)(8) of House Resolution 503, the 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. Aguilar, 
and staff counsel, Mr. John Wood, for questioning.
    Mr. Aguilar. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    We are fortunate to have a bipartisan staff. Senior 
Investigative Counsel John Wood previously served as United 
States attorney in Missouri under President George W. Bush. He 
and I will share today's lines of questioning.
    Mr. Wood.
    Mr. Wood. Thank you, Mr. Aguilar.
    Judge Luttig, I had the incredible honor of serving as one 
of your law clerks. Another person who did was John Eastman.
    You have written that Dr. Eastman's theory that the Vice 
President could determine who the next President of the United 
States is is, in your words, ``incorrect at every turn.''
    Could you please explain briefly your analysis?
    Judge Luttig. It was my honor, Mr. Wood, to have you serve 
as my law clerk.
    I could answer that question perfectly if I had at my 
disposal either Mr. Eastman's tweet or my own analytical tweet 
of September 21st, but I don't.
    But, that said, let me try to remember Mr. Eastman's 
analysis.
    Mr. Wood. Judge, I can read to you and to the audience I 
think what was really a key passage from your very insightful 
analysis, when you wrote, ``I believe(d) that Professor Eastman 
was incorrect at every turn of the analysis in his January 2 
memorandum, beginning with his claim that there were 
legitimate, competing slates of electors presented from 7 
States.''
    You have already addressed that issue.
    But your next sentence said: `` . . . continuing to his 
conclusion that the Vice President could unilaterally decide 
not to count the votes from the 7 States from which competing 
slates were allegedly presented.''
    So, what was your basis for concluding that Dr. Eastman was 
incorrect in his conclusion that the Vice President could 
unilaterally decide not to count the votes from these disputed 
States?
    Judge Luttig. I understand.
    As I previously stated in response to Congresswoman Cheney, 
there was no basis in the Constitution or laws of the United 
States at all for the theory espoused by Mr. Eastman--at all. 
None.
    With all respect to my co-panelist, he said, I believe in 
partial response to one of the Select Committee's questions, 
that the single sentence in the 12th Amendment was, he thought, 
inartfully written.
    That single sentence is not inartfully written. It was 
pristine clear that the President of the Senate on January 6th, 
the incumbent Vice President of the United States, had little 
substantive Constitutional authority, if any at all.
    The 12th Amendment, the single sentence that Mr. Jacob 
refers to, says in substance that, following the transmission 
of the certificates to the Congress of the United States and, 
under the Electoral Count Act of 1887, the Archivist of the 
United States, that the presiding officer shall open the 
certificates in the presence of the Congress of the United 
States in joint session.
    It then says, unmistakably, not even that the Vice 
President himself shall count the electoral votes. It clearly 
says merely that the electoral count votes shall then be 
counted.
    It was the Electoral Count Act of 1887 that filled in, if 
you will, the simple words of the 12th Amendment in order to 
construct for the country a process for the counting of--the 
sacred process for the counting of--the electoral votes from 
the States that neither our original Constitution nor even the 
12th Amendment had done.
    The irony, if you will, is that, from its founding until 
1887, when Congress passed the Electoral Count Act, the Nation 
had been in considerable turmoil during at least 5 of its 
Presidential elections, beginning as soon thereafter from the 
founding as 1800. So, it wasn't for almost 100 years later 
until the Electoral Count Act was passed.
    So that is why, in my view, that piece of legislation is 
not only a work in progress for the country but, at this moment 
in history, an important work in progress that needs to take 
place.
    That was long-winded, I understand.
    Mr. Wood. Well, Judge Luttig, at the risk of 
oversimplifying for the non-lawyers who are watching, is it 
fair to say that the 12th Amendment basically says two things 
happen: the Vice President opens the certificates, and the 
electoral votes are counted.
    Is it that straightforward?
    Judge Luttig. I would not want that to be my testimony 
before the Congress of the United States. The language of the 
12th Amendment is that simple.
    Mr. Wood. Thank you, Judge.
    Mr. Jacob, I have a question for you. I believe during your 
deposition before this Committee you said something to the 
effect of you had read every word written about the 12th 
Amendment, the Electoral Count Act, and historical practice.
    I know in response to the Chairman's earlier question you 
gave your bottom-line conclusion, but can you tell us a little 
bit about the process that you and your colleagues went through 
of researching this issue and what conclusion you came to after 
your thorough research?
    Mr. Jacob. So, as a lawyer who is analyzing a 
Constitutional provision, you start with the Constitutional 
text, you go to structure, you go to history.
    So, we started with the text. We did not think that the 
text was quite as unambiguous as Judge Luttig indicated. In 
part, we had a Constitutional crisis in 1876 because, in that 
year, multiple slates of electors were certified by multiple 
States, and, when it came time to count those votes, the 
antecedent question of which ones had to be answered.
    That required the appointment of an independent commission. 
That commission had had to resolve that question. The purpose 
of the Electoral Count Act of 1887 had been to resolve those 
latent ambiguities.
    Now, I am in complete agreement with Judge Luttig; it is 
unambiguous that the Vice President does not have the authority 
to reject electors. There is no suggestion of any kind that it 
does. There is no mention of rejecting or objecting to electors 
anywhere in the 12th Amendment. So the notion that the Vice 
President could do that certainly is not in the text.
    But the problem that we had, and that John Eastman raised 
in our discussions was, we had all seen that in Congress, in 
2000, in 2004, in 2016, there had been objections raised to 
various States, and those had even been debated in 2004. So 
here you have an amendment that says nothing about objecting or 
rejecting and yet we did have some recent practice of that 
happening within the terms of the Electoral Count Act.
    So, we started with that text. I recall, in my discussion 
with the Vice President, he said, ``I can't wait to go to 
heaven and meet the Framers and tell them, `The work that you 
did in putting together our Constitution is a work of genius. 
Thank you. It was divinely inspired. There is one sentence that 
I would like to talk to you a little bit about.' ''
    So, then we went to structure. Again, the Vice President's 
first instinct here is so decisive on this question. There is 
just no way that the Framers of the Constitution, who divided 
power and authority, who separated it out, who had broken away 
from George III and declared him to be a tyrant--there was no 
way that they would have put in the hands of one person the 
authority to determine who was going to be President of the 
United States.
    Then we went to history. We examined every single electoral 
vote count that had happened in Congress since the beginning of 
the country. We examined the Electoral Count Act. We examined 
practice under the Electoral Count Act.
    Critically, no Vice President in 230 years of history had 
ever claimed to have that kind of authority, hadn't claimed 
authority to reject electoral votes, had not claimed authority 
to return electoral votes back to the States. In the entire 
history of the United States, not once had a joint session ever 
returned electoral votes back to the States to be counted.
    In the crisis of 1876, Justice Bradley of the U.S. Supreme 
Court, who supplied the decisive final vote on that commission, 
had specifically looked at that question and said, first, the 
Vice President clearly doesn't have authority to decide 
anything and, by the way, also does not have authority to 
conduct an investigation by sending things back out for a 
public look at things.
    So, the history was absolutely decisive.
    Again, part of my discussion with Mr. Eastman was, if you 
were right, don't you think Al Gore might have liked to have 
known in 2000 that he had authority to just declare himself 
President of the United States? Did you think that the Democrat 
lawyers just didn't think of this very obvious quirk that he 
could use to do that? Of course, he acknowledged Al Gore did 
not and should not have had that authority at that point in 
time.
    But so text, structure, history. I think what we had was 
some ambiguous text that common sense and structure would tell 
you the answer cannot possibly be that the Vice President has 
that authority--as the Committee already played the Vice 
President's remarks, there is almost no idea more un-American 
than the notion that any one person would choose the American 
President--and then unbroken historical practice for 230 years 
that the Vice President did not have such an authority.
    Mr. Wood. Thank you.
    I reserve the remainder of my time.
    Mr. Aguilar. Mr. Jacob, you weren't the only one who knew 
that the legal theory was wrong, though. Here is what various 
advisors to the President thought about that theory.

    Mr. Heaphy. Had you been clear repeatedly with Mr. Meadows about 
you and the Vice President having a different view about his authority 
on January 6th?
    Mr. Short. I believe I had.
    Mr. Heaphy. Did Mr. Meadows ever explicitly or tacitly agree with 
you, or say, ``Yeah, that makes sense, okay''?
    Mr. Short. I believe that--that Mark did agree.
    Mr. Heaphy. What makes you say that?
    Mr. Short. I believe that's what he told me. But, as I mentioned, I 
think Mark had told so many people so many different things that it was 
not something that--that I would necessarily accept as okay, well, that 
means that's resolved.
    Mr. Heaphy. I see. Tell me more what--what he told you on this 
topic.
    Mr. Short. Well, I think it was that, you know, the Vice President 
doesn't have any broader role. I think he was understanding of that.
    Mr. Heaphy. So, despite the fact that he may have said other things 
to the President or others, to you he said he understands the Vice 
President has no role.
    Mr. Short. Yes.
    Mr. Heaphy. Okay. Did he say that to you several times?
    Mr. Short. A couple of times, um-hmm.
    Mr. Heaphy. Before January 6th?
    Mr. Short. Yes.
    Mr. Jason Miller. The way it was communicated to me was that Pat 
Cipollone thought the idea was--was nutty and had at one point 
confronted Eastman basically with the same sentiment.
    Mr. Short. Pat expressed his admiration for the Vice President's 
actions on the day of the 6th and said that he concurred with the legal 
analysis that--that our team had--had put together to reach that point.
    Mr. Herschmann. It made no sense to me that, in all the protections 
that were built into the Constitution for a President to get elected 
and steps that had to be taken, that the--or to choose the next 
President would be sitting at--with the Vice President.
    Mr. George. Do you know if Mr. Clark or Mr. Morgan--is it Morgan--
viewed about that--thought about that, Mr. Eastman's advice?
    Mr. Jason Miller. Yeah, they thought he was crazy.
    Mr. George. Do you know if they ever expressed an opinion on 
whether they thought the Vice President had the power that John Eastman 
said he did?
    Mr. Jason Miller. I know for a fact I heard both say that his 
theory was crazy, that there was no validity to it in any way, shape, 
or form.
    Mr. George. And did they express that before January 6th?
    Mr. Jason Miller. Yes.
    Mr. George. To whom?
    Mr. Jason Miller. I think anyone who would listen.
    Mr. Wood. Okay. What were your prior interactions with Eastman?
    Mr. Herschmann. He described for me what he thought the ambiguity 
was in the statute, and he was walking through it at that time. And I 
said, ``Hold on a second. I want to understand what you're saying. 
You're saying that you believe the Vice President, acting as President 
of the Senate, can be the sole decision maker as to, under your theory, 
who becomes the next President of the United States.''
    And he said, ``Yes.''
    And I said, ``Are you out of your effing mind?'' Right? And I--you 
know, that was pretty blunt.
    I said, ``You're completely crazy.''
    I said, ``You're going to turn around and tell 78-plus million 
people in this country that your theory is this is how you're going to 
invalidate their votes, because you think the election was stolen?''
    And I said, ``They're not going to tolerate that.'' Said: ``You're 
going to cause riots in the streets.''
    And he said words to the effect of: There has been violence in the 
history of our country, Eric, to protect the democracy or protect the 
Republic.

    Mr. Aguilar. In fact, there was a risk that the lawyers in 
the White House Counsel's Office would resign.
    For example, Fox News Host Sean Hannity expressed concern 
that the entire White House Counsel's Office could quit. As you 
can see from these texts, Mr. Hannity wrote to White House 
Chief of Staff Mark Meadows that, ``we can't lose the entire WH 
counsels office. I do NOT see January 6 happening the way he is 
being told.''
    A few days later, on January 5th, Mr. Hannity wrote to Mr. 
Meadows that, ``I'm very worried about the next 48 hours.'' 
``Pence pressure. WH counsel will leave.''
    While Sean Hannity was apparently very concerned about the 
possibility that the White House Counsel would resign in 
protest of the President's effort to force the Vice President 
to violate the Constitution, some others close to the President 
were more dismissive of the White House Counsel's position.
    Here is what Trump's son-in-law and senior advisor, Jared 
Kushner, said during his deposition regarding White House 
Counsel Pat Cipollone's threats to resign.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Jared, are you aware of instances where Pat 
Cipollone threatened to resign?
    Mr. Kushner. I--I kind-of--like I said, my interest at that time 
was on trying to get as many pardons done. And I know that, you know, 
he was always--to him and the team were always saying, Oh, we're going 
to resign. We're not going to be here if this happens, if that happens. 
So, I kind-of took it up to just be whining to be honest with you.

    Mr. Aguilar. The President's own lead outside counsel, Rudy 
Giuliani, also seemed to concede that the Vice President did 
not have the authority to decide the outcome of the election or 
send it back to the States.
    Here is what White House attorney Eric Herschmann said 
about his call with Mayor Giuliani on the morning of the 6th.

    Mr. Herschmann. The morning of January 6th, I think he called me 
out of the blue, right? And I was like getting dressed. And we had an 
intellectual discussion that--about Eastman's--I don't know if it's 
Eastman's theory per se, but the VP's role. And, you know, he was 
asking me my view and analysis and then the practical implications of 
it. And when we finished, he said, like, ``I believe that, you know, 
you're probably right.''
    I think he thought, when we were done, that it would be something 
he'd have to consider if he was sitting on the bench, but he'd probably 
come down in that, you know, you couldn't interpret it or sustain the 
argument long-term.

    Mr. Aguilar. Of course, the fact that Mayor Giuliani seemed 
to admit that the theory was wrong did not stop him from going 
before the crowd just a few hours later on January 6th and 
saying the exact opposite.
    Here is Mayor Giuliani's speech at the Ellipse rally on 
January 6th.

    Mr. Giuliani. We're here just very briefly to make a--very 
important two points. No. 1, every single thing that has been outlined 
as the plan for today is perfectly legal. I have Professor Eastman here 
with me to say a few words about that. He's one of the preeminent 
constitutional scholars in the United States.
    It is perfectly appropriate, given the questionable 
constitutionality of the Election Counting Act of 1887, that the Vice 
President can cast it aside, and he can do what a President called 
Jefferson did when he was Vice President. [applause]
    He can decide--he can decide on the validity of these crooked 
ballots, or he can send it back to the legislatures, give them 5 to 10 
days to finally finish the work.

    Mr. Aguilar. Here is what Dr. Eastman said in his speech at 
the Ellipse on January 6th.

    Mr. Eastman. And all we are demanding of Vice President Pence is 
this afternoon at 1 o'clock he let the legislatures of the State look 
into this, so we get to the bottom of it and the American people know 
whether we have control of the direction of our Government or not. 
[applause]

    Mr. Aguilar. Even Dr. Eastman knew his theory didn't hold 
water.
    Mr. Jacob, you discussed and even debated this theory at 
length with Dr. Eastman. Did Dr. Eastman ever tell you what he 
thought the U.S. Supreme Court would do if it had to decide 
this issue?
    Mr. Jacob. Yes. We had an extended discussion, an hour-and-
a-half to 2 hours, on January 5th. When I pressed him on the 
point, I said, ``John, if the Vice President did what you are 
asking him to do, we would lose 9 to nothing in the Supreme 
Court, wouldn't we?''
    He initially started, ``Well, I think maybe you would lose 
only 7-2,'' and after some further discussion acknowledged, 
``Well, yes, you are right, we would lose 9-nothing.''
    Mr. Aguilar. I appreciate that.
    In our investigation, the Select Committee has obtained 
evidence suggesting that Dr. Eastman never really believed his 
own theory. Let me explain.
    On the screen, you can see a draft letter to the President 
from October 2020. In this letter, an idea was proposed that 
the Vice President could determine which electors to count at 
the joint session of Congress. But the person writing in blue 
eviscerates that argument.
    The person who wrote the comments in blue wrote, ``The 12th 
Amendment only says that the President of the Senate opens the 
ballots in the joint session and then, in the passive voice, 
that the votes shall then be counted.''
    The comments in blue further state, ``Nowhere does it 
suggest that the President of the Senate gets to make the 
determination on his own.''
    Judge Luttig, does it surprise you that the author of those 
comments in blue was, in fact, John Eastman?
    Judge Luttig. Yes, it does, Congressman.
    But let me--watching this unfold, let me try to unpack what 
was at the root of what I have called ``the blueprint to 
overturn the 2020 election,'' and it is this. I foreshadowed 
this answer in my earlier testimony to Congresswoman Cheney.
    Mr. Eastman, from the beginning, said to the President that 
there was both legal as well as historical precedent for the 
Vice President to overturn the election. What we have heard 
today, I believe, is what happened within the White House and 
elsewhere as all the players, led by Mr. Eastman, got wrapped 
around the axle by the ``historical evidence'' claim by Mr. 
Eastman.
    Let me explain very simply. This is what I have said would 
require a digression that I would be glad to undertake if you 
wish.
    In short, if I had been advising the Vice President of the 
United States on January 6th, and even if then-Vice President 
Jefferson and even then-Vice President John Adams and even 
then-Vice President Richard Nixon had done exactly what the 
President of the United States wanted his Vice President to do, 
I would have laid my body across the road before I would have 
let the Vice President overturn the 2020 election on the basis 
of that historical precedent.
    But what this body needs to know--and now America needs to 
know--is that that was the centerpiece of the plan to overturn 
the 2020 election. It was the historical precedent in the years 
and with the Vice Presidents that I named, as Congressman 
Raskin understands well.
    The effort by Mr. Eastman and others was to drive that 
historical precedent up to and under that single sentence, 
single pristine sentence, in the 12th Amendment to the United 
States Constitution, taking advantage of, if you will, what 
many have said is the inartful wording of that sentence in the 
12th Amendment.
    Scholars before 2020 would have used that historical 
precedent to argue not that Vice President Pence could overturn 
the 2020 election by accepting noncertified State electoral 
votes, but they would have made arguments as to some 
substantive, not merely procedural, authority possessed by the 
Vice President of the United States on the statutorily 
prescribed day for counting the electoral college votes.
    This is Constitutional mischief.
    Mr. Aguilar. Judge, I think that is a good point. I think 
it kind-of begs the question that if the Vice President had 
this power to determine the outcome of a Presidential election, 
why hasn't it ever been used before? Why hasn't that ever 
happened? Why hasn't a Vice President simply rejected the 
outcome of an election and declared someone else the winner?
    Instead, as the Chairman mentioned in his opening, for over 
two centuries Vice Presidents have presided over the joint 
sessions of Congress in a purely ceremonial role.
    This even includes, as Mr. Jacob mentioned, Vice President 
Al Gore. For those of us who are old enough to remember, the 
2000 election came down to one State: Florida. There were weeks 
of recounts and litigation after the election, and Al Gore 
conceded.
    Of course, Al Gore was the Vice President at the time, but 
he never suggested that he could simply declare himself the 
winner of the 2000 election when he presided over the counting 
of the electoral votes.
    Let's hear what Vice President Gore said when he described 
the situation he faced in 2000.

    Vice President Gore. [I]mportance of the United States of America 
in all of human history, in Lincoln's phrase, we still are the last 
best hope of humankind. And the choice between one's own disappointment 
in your personal career and upholding the--the noble traditions of 
America's democracy, it's a pretty easy choice when it comes down to 
it.

    Mr. Aguilar. Mr. Jacob, did Dr. Eastman say whether he 
would want other Vice Presidents, such as Al Gore after the 
2000 election, or Kamala Harris after the 2024 election, to 
have the power to decide the outcome of the election?
    Mr. Jacob. So, this was one of the many points that we 
discussed on January 5th. He had come into that meeting trying 
to persuade us that there was some validity to his theory. I 
viewed it as my objective to persuade him to acknowledge he was 
just wrong.
    I thought this had to be one of the most powerful 
arguments: ``I mean, John, back in 2000, you weren't jumping up 
and saying Al Gore had this authority to do that. You would not 
want Kamala Harris to be able to exercise that kind of 
authority in 2024 when I hope Republicans will win the 
election, and I know you hope that too, John.''
    He said, ``Absolutely. Al Gore did not have a basis to do 
it in 2000. Kamala Harris shouldn't be able to do it in 2024. 
But I think you should do it today.''
    Mr. Aguilar. Marc Short told the Select Committee that Vice 
President Pence consulted with one of his predecessors, Vice 
President Dan Quayle, regarding the role of the Vice President. 
Vice President Quayle confirmed Pence's view that the role was 
purely ceremonial.
    Mr. Short also told the Committee that he, Mr. Short, 
received a call from former House Speaker Paul Ryan. Here is 
Mr. Short's description of his conversation with Speaker Ryan.

    Mr. Short. Speaker Ryan wanted to call and say, ``You know, you 
don't have any greater authority.'' And I--I said to him, ``Mr. Speaker 
you--you know, Mike, you know he doesn't--you know, he recognizes 
that.'' And we sort-of laughed about it, and he said, ``I get it.'' And 
he later spoke to the Vice President, too, to I think have the same 
conversation.

    Mr. Aguilar. Fortunately for the fate of our Republic, Vice 
President Pence refused to go along with President Trump's 
demands that he determine the outcome of the Presidential 
election.
    Mr. Jacob, what was the Vice President's reaction when you 
discussed with him the theory that the Vice President could 
decide the outcome of the election?
    Mr. Jacob. Congressman, as I have testified, the Vice 
President's first instinct was that there was no way that any 
one person, particularly the Vice President, who is on the 
ticket and has a vested outcome in the election, could possibly 
have the authority to decide it, by rejecting electors, or to 
decisively alter the outcome by suspending the joint session 
for the first time in history in order to try to get a 
different outcome from State legislatures.
    Mr. Aguilar. Despite the fact that the Vice President had a 
strongly held and correct view that he could not decide the 
outcome of the election, President Trump launched a multi-week 
campaign of both public and private pressure to get Vice 
President Mike Pence to violate the Constitution.
    Here are some examples of the intense pressure the Vice 
President faced from all sides and what his chief of staff 
thought of it.

    President Trump. And I hope Mike Pence comes through for us. I have 
to tell you. [applause] I hope that our great Vice President--our great 
Vice President comes through for us. He's a great guy. Of course, if he 
doesn't come through, I won't like him quite as much. [laughter]
    Mr. Heaphy. Was it your impression that the Vice President had 
directly conveyed his position on these issues to the President, not 
just to the world through a Dear Colleague letter, but directly to 
President Trump?
    Mr. Short. Many times.
    Mr. Heaphy. And he'd been consistent in conveying his position to 
the President?
    Mr. Short. Very consistent.
    Mr. Giuliani. I am--I am aware of the fact that the President was 
upset with the way Pence acted.
    Mr. Bannon. Are we to assume that this is going to be a climactic 
battle?
    Mr. Eastman. Well, I think a lot of that depends on the courage and 
the spine of the individuals involved.
    Mr. Bannon. That would be a nice way to say a guy named Mike--Vice 
President Mike Pence?
    Mr. Eastman. Yes.
    Mr. Short. I think we'd been clear as to what the Vice President's 
role was. I think the Vice President made clear with the President. And 
I think I'd been clear with Mark Meadows.
    Mr. Jason Miller. I think the Vice President is going to throw down 
tomorrow and do the right thing because, Lou, like I said before, this 
is a time for choosing. People are going to look back at this moment 
tomorrow and remember where every single one of their elected officials 
were.
    Did they vote for the rule of law in getting these elections right? 
Or did they give it away to the Democrats and the people who cheated 
and stole their way through this election?
    Definitely the--you know, I got back into town approximately like 
the 5th and the 6th. The President was, you know, all the attention was 
on what Mike would do or what Mike wouldn't do.
    Mr. Short. The Vice President really was not wavering in his 
commitment to what he--what his responsibility was. And so, yeah, was 
it--was it painful? Sure.

    Mr. Aguilar. The President's pressure campaign started in 
December. For example, although the Vice President made his 
views clearly and unmistakably known to the President and 
others in the White House on December 23rd, President Trump 
retweeted a memo from an individual named Ivan Raiklin, 
entitled ``Operation Pence Card,'' that called on the Vice 
President to refuse the electoral college votes from certain 
States that had certified Joe Biden as the winner.
    President Trump started his pressure campaign in December, 
but he dialed up the pressure as January 6th approached.
    The testimony we have received in our investigation 
indicates that by the time January 4th arrived, President Trump 
had already engaged in a ``multi-week campaign'' to pressure 
the Vice President to decide the outcome of the election.
    This had included private conversations between the two 
leaders, Trump's tweets, and at least one meeting with Members 
of Congress.
    We understand that the Vice President started his day on 
January 4th with a rally in Georgia for the Republican 
candidates in the U.S. Senate runoff.
    When the Vice President returned to Washington, he was 
summoned to meet with the President regarding the upcoming 
joint session of Congress.
    Mr. Jacob, who attended that meeting?
    Mr. Jacob. The attendees were the Vice President, the 
President, Marc Short, the chief of staff to the Vice 
President, myself, and John Eastman. There was about a 5-minute 
period where Mark Meadows came in on a different issue.
    Mr. Aguilar. Let's show a photo of that meeting.
    Mr. Jacob, during that meeting between the President and 
the Vice President, what theories did Dr. Eastman present 
regarding the role of the Vice President in counting the 
electoral votes?
    Mr. Jacob. During the meeting on January 4th, Mr. Eastman 
was opining that there were two legally viable arguments as to 
authorities that the Vice President could exercise 2 days later 
on January 6th.
    One of them was that he could reject electoral votes 
outright. The other was that he could use his capacity as 
presiding officer to suspend the proceedings and declare 
essentially a 10-day recess, during which States that he deemed 
to be disputed--there was a list of 5 to 7 States that the 
exact number changed from conversation to conversation--but 
that the Vice President could sort-of issue a demand to the 
State legislatures in those States to reexamine the election 
and declare who had won each of those States.
    So, he said that both of those were legally viable options. 
He said that he did not recommend, upon questioning, he did not 
recommend what he called the more aggressive option, which was 
reject outright, because he thought that that would be less 
politically palatable, that the imprimatur of State legislature 
authority would be necessary to ultimately have public 
acceptance of an outcome in favor of President Trump.
    So, he advocated that the preferred course of action would 
be the procedural route of suspending the joint session and 
sending the election back to the States.
    Mr. Aguilar. Mr. Jacob, I know you won't discuss the direct 
conversations between the President and the Vice President, so 
rather than asking you what the Vice President said in that 
meeting, I will ask you a more general question.
    Did the Vice President ever waver in his position that he 
could not unilaterally decide which electors to accept?
    Mr. Jacob. The Vice President never budged from the 
position that I have described as his first instinct, which was 
that it just made no sense, from everything that he knew and 
had studied about our Constitution, that one person would have 
that kind of authority.
    Mr. Aguilar. Did the Vice President ever waver in his 
position that he could not delay certification and send it back 
to the States?
    Mr. Jacob. No, he did not.
    Mr. Aguilar. Did Dr. Eastman admit in front of the 
President that his proposal would violate the Electoral Count 
Act?
    Mr. Jacob. So, during that meeting on the 4th, I think I 
raised the problem that both of Mr. Eastman's proposals would 
violate several provisions of the Electoral Count Act.
    Mr. Eastman acknowledged that that was the case, that even 
what he viewed as the more politically palatable option would 
violate several provisions, but he thought that we could do so 
because in his view the Electoral Count Act was 
unconstitutional.
    When I raised concerns that that position would likely lose 
in court, his view was that the court simply wouldn't get 
involved. They would invoke the political question doctrine and 
therefore we could have some comfort proceeding with that path.
    Mr. Aguilar. Mr. Wood.
    Mr. Wood. But just to reiterate, he told you--maybe this 
was in a later conversation--but he told you at some point that 
if, in fact, the issue ever got to the Supreme Court, his 
theory would lose 
9-0, correct?
    Mr. Jacob. The next morning, starting around 11 or 11:30, 
we met for an hour-and-a-half to 2 hours. In that meeting, I 
have already described the text, structure, history 
conversation, but we started walking through all of that.
    I said, ``John, basically what you have is some texts that 
may be a little bit ambiguous, but then nothing else that would 
support it, including the fact that nobody would ever want that 
to be the rule. Wouldn't we lose 9 to nothing in the Supreme 
Court?''
    Again, he initially started, ``Well, maybe you would only 
lose 
7-2,'' but ultimately acknowledged that, no, we would lose 9-0, 
no judge would support his argument.
    Mr. Aguilar. After his meeting with the Vice President, 
Donald Trump flew to Georgia for a rally in support of the 
Republican candidates in the U.S. Senate runoff.
    Even though the Vice President had been steadfast in 
resisting the President's pressure, President Trump continued 
to publicly pressure Vice President Pence in his Georgia 
speech.
    Rather than focusing exclusively on the Georgia Senate 
runoff, Trump turned his attention to Mike Pence. Here is what 
the President said during that rally in Georgia.

    President Trump. [P]ence comes through for us. I have to tell you. 
[applause] I hope that our great Vice President--our great Vice 
President comes through for us. He's a great guy. Of course, if he 
doesn't come through, I won't like him quite as much. [laughter]

    Mr. Aguilar. So, the President had been told multiple times 
that the Vice President could not affect the outcome of the 
election, but he nonetheless publicly pressured Mike Pence to 
do exactly that by saying, ``If he doesn't come through, I 
won't like him as much.''
    Let's turn now to January 5th.
    Mr. Wood.
    Mr. Wood. Thank you.
    That morning, meaning January 5th, the President issued a 
tweet expressly stating that the Vice President had the power 
to reject electors.
    Let's look at what the President wrote. ``The Vice 
President has the power to reject fraudulently chosen 
electors.''
    Mr. Jacob, you have already told us about your meeting with 
Dr. Eastman and the President on January 4th, and you briefly 
made reference to the meeting you had with Dr. Eastman the next 
day, January 5th.
    Can you tell us a little bit more about that meeting with 
Dr. Eastman on January 5th? For example, where was the meeting? 
Who was there?
    Mr. Jacob. So, at the conclusion of the meeting on the 4th, 
the President had asked that our office meet with Mr. Eastman 
the next day to hear more about the positions he had expressed 
at that meeting, and the Vice President indicated that--offered 
me up as his counsel to fulfill that duty.
    So, we met in Marc Short's office in the Executive Office 
Building across the way from the White House. Dr. Eastman had a 
court hearing by Zoom that morning, so it didn't start first 
thing, but rather started around 11.
    That meeting went for about an hour-and-a-half, 2 hours. 
Chief of Staff Marc Short was at that meeting most of the time. 
There were a few times that he left. Essentially, it was an 
extended discussion.
    What most surprised me about that meeting was that when Mr. 
Eastman came in, he said, ``I am here to request that you 
reject the electors.''
    So on the 4th, that had been the path that he had said, ``I 
am not recommending that you do that,'' but on the 5th, he came 
in and expressly requested that.
    I grabbed a notebook because I was heading into the 
meeting. I didn't hear much new from him to record, but that 
was the first thing I recorded in my notes, was, ``Request that 
the VP reject.''
    Mr. Wood. Just to be clear, you are saying that Dr. Eastman 
urged the Vice President to adopt the very same approach that 
Dr. Eastman appeared to abandon in the Oval Office meeting with 
the President the day before. Is that correct?
    Mr. Jacob. He had recommended against it the evening 
before, and then on the 5th came in--and I think it was 
probably his first words after introductions and as we sat down 
were, ``I am here to request that you reject the electors in 
the disputed States.''
    Mr. Wood. You referenced a moment ago some handwritten 
notes, which you have provided to the Select Committee. I would 
now like to show you those notes.
    As you can see, you wrote there at the top--the writing is 
a little bit faint in the copy--but you wrote, ``Requesting VP 
reject.''
    Does that accurately reflect what Dr. Eastman asked of you 
in your meeting on January 5th?
    Mr. Jacob. Yes.
    Mr. Wood. What was your reaction when Dr. Eastman said on 
January 5th that he was there to ask the Vice President of the 
United States to reject electors at the joint session of 
Congress?
    Mr. Jacob. I was surprised, because I had viewed it as one 
of the key concessions that we had secured the night before 
from Mr. Eastman, that he was not recommending that we do that.
    Mr. Wood. So what did you say to him?
    Mr. Jacob. Well, as I indicated, to some extent it 
simplified my task because there are more procedural 
complexities to the ``send it back to the States'' point of 
view. I actually had spent most of my evening the night before 
writing a memorandum to the Vice President explaining all of 
the specific provisions of the Electoral Count Act that that 
plan would violate.
    So instead, since he was pushing the sort-of robust 
unilateral power theory--I have already walked the Committee 
through the discussions that we had--again, I started out with 
our points of commonality--or what I thought were our points of 
commonality--we are conservatives, we are small government 
people, we believe in originalism as the means by which we are 
going to interpret this.
    So we walked through the text, we walked through the 
history. The Committee has shown footage of Mr. Eastman on the 
stage on the 6th claiming that Jefferson supported his position 
in a historical example of Jefferson.
    In fact, he conceded in that meeting Jefferson did not at 
all support his position, that in the election of 1800 there 
had been some small technical defect with the certificate in 
Georgia. It was absolutely undisputed that Jefferson had won 
Georgia.
    Jefferson did not assert that he had any authority to 
reject electors. He did not assert that he had any authority to 
resolve any issue during the course of that.
    So, he acknowledged by the end that there was no historical 
practice whatsoever that supported his position. He had 
initially tried to push examples of Jefferson and Adams.
    He ultimately acknowledged they did not work, as we have 
covered. He acknowledged it would lose 9-0 in the Supreme 
Court.
    He again tried to say, ``But I don't think the courts will 
get involved in this. They will invoke the political question 
doctrine. So if the courts stay out of it, that will mean that 
we will have the 10 days for the States to weigh in and resolve 
it. Then they will send back the Trump slates of electors, and 
the people will be able to accept that.''
    I expressed my vociferous disagreement with that point. I 
did not think that this was a political question.
    Among other things, if the courts did not step in to 
resolve this, there was nobody else to resolve it. You would be 
in a situation where you have a standoff between the President 
of the United States and, counterfactually, the Vice President 
of the United States, saying that we have exercised authorities 
that, Constitutionally, we think we have by which we have 
deemed ourselves the winners of the election.
    You would have an opposed House and Senate disagreeing with 
that. You would have State legislatures that, to that point, I 
mean, Republican leaders across those legislatures had put 
together--had put out statements--and we collected these for 
the Vice President as well--that the people had spoken in their 
States and that they had no intention of reversing the outcome 
of the election.
    We did receive some signed letters that Mr. Eastman 
forwarded us by minorities of leaders in those States, but no 
State had any legislative house that indicated that it had any 
interest in it.
    So, you would have had just an unprecedented Constitutional 
jump ball situation with that stand-off. As I expressed to him, 
that issue might well then have to be decided in the streets. 
Because if we can't work it out politically, we have already 
seen how charged up people are about this election. So, it 
would be a disastrous situation to be in.
    So, I said I think the courts will intervene. I do not see 
a commitment in the Constitution of the question whether the 
Vice President has that authority to some other actor to 
resolve. There are arguments about whether Congress and the 
Vice President jointly have a Constitutional commitment to 
generally decide electoral vote issues.
    I don't think that they have any authority to object or 
reject them. I don't see it in the 12th Amendment. But 
nonetheless.
    I concluded by saying, ``John, in light of everything that 
we have discussed, can't we just both agree that this is a 
terrible idea?''
    He couldn't quite bring himself to say yes to that, but he 
very clearly said, ``Well, yes, I see we are not going to be 
able to persuade you to do this.''
    That was how the meeting concluded.
    Mr. Wood. You just described a terrifying scenario. It 
sounds like there could have been chaos under the Eastman 
approach. You have described it as it potentially could be 
decided in the streets. You described several concessions that 
Dr. Eastman made throughout that discussion or even debate that 
you had with him.
    At some point during that meeting on January 5th, did Dr. 
Eastman seem to admit that both of the theories that he had 
presented to the United States the day before--so the theory 
that the Vice President could reject electors outright and 
declare Donald Trump the winner, and his less aggressive theory 
that the Vice President could simply send it back to the 
States--at some point in that conversation on the 5th, did Dr. 
Eastman seem to admit that both of these theories suffered from 
similar legal flaws?
    Mr. Jacob. So I had at least one, possibly two other 
conversations with Dr. Eastman later that day.
    In the earlier meeting, we really were focused, because his 
request that he made had been reject the electors outright, on 
why that theory was wrong, and why we certainly would not be 
doing that.
    Later that day, he pivoted back to, ``Well, we hear you 
loud and clear, you are not going to reject. But remember last 
night, I said that there was this more prudent course where you 
could just send it back to the States. Would you be willing to 
do that?''
    During the course of our discussion about his renewed 
request that we consider that option, he acknowledged to me--he 
put it--both Mr. Eastman and myself are graduates of the 
University of Chicago Law School, and he said, ``Look, as 
graduates of that august institution, you and I will mutually 
understand that the underlying legal theory of plenary Vice 
Presidential authority is what you have to have to get there.''
    Because this new theory, as I was pointing out to him--or 
the procedural theory--still violates several provisions of the 
Electoral Count Act, as he acknowledged. The only way that you 
could ever be able to ignore several provisions of statutory 
law is if it was pretty clear that they were unconstitutional.
    The only way they could be unconstitutional is if the Vice 
President had the plenary authorities that formed the basis for 
the reject the votes as well.
    So, he acknowledged in those conversations that the 
underlying legal theory was the same. He just thought that the 
``send it back to the States'' option would be more politically 
palatable and he hoped more palatable to the Vice President for 
that reason.
    Mr. Wood. In fact, when Dr. Eastman made this concession 
during that meeting, according to your earlier deposition, Dr. 
Eastman said, ``Just between us University of Chicago 
chickens.'' Is that right?
    Mr. Jacob. I don't think that the University of Chicago is 
going to start a Chicago chickens fundraising fund. But, yes, 
that is the terminology that he used. He said, you know, ``Just 
between us Chicago chickens, we will understand, as lawyers who 
have studied the Constitution, that the underlying basis really 
is the same.''
    Mr. Wood. I reserve the remainder of my time.
    Mr. Aguilar. Thank you, Mr. Wood.
    Mr. Jacob, the President and the Vice President meet again 
on that same topic the next day, January 5th, correct?
    Mr. Jacob. After my extended meeting with Mr. Eastman that 
morning, during that time the Vice President had been back at 
his residence working on his statement to the Nation that we 
released the next day.
    He got down to the White House some point between 1 o'clock 
and 2 o'clock as my meeting with Mr. Eastman was wrapping up. 
When we, Marc Short and I, went over to meet with the Vice 
President and--actually, we thought maybe we had good news. We 
felt like we had sort-of defeated Mr. Eastman. He was sort-of 
acknowledging that there was no ``there'' there.
    But the Vice President was then asked down to the Oval 
Office, and he went down to the Oval Office while Marc and I 
stayed back in the Vice President's office.
    Mr. Aguilar. You weren't in that meeting?
    Mr. Jacob. I was not.
    Mr. Aguilar. In the book ``Peril'' journalists Bob Woodward 
and Robert Costa write that the President said, ``If these 
people say you have the power, wouldn't you want to?''
    The Vice President says, ``I wouldn't want any one person 
to have that authority.''
    The President responds, ``But wouldn't it almost be cool to 
have that power?''
    The Vice President is reported to have said, ``No. Look, I 
have read this, and I don't see a way to do it. We have 
exhausted every option. I have done everything I could and then 
some to find a way around this. It is simply not possible. My 
interpretation is no.''
    To which the President says, ``No, no, no, you don't 
understand, Mike. You can do this. I don't want to be your 
friend anymore if you don't do this.''
    We asked Marc Short about this during his deposition.

    Mr. Short. [A]n understanding that I would have. In other 
conversations with the Vice President, he articulated to me that, no, 
he wouldn't want that power bestowed upon any one person.

    Mr. Aguilar. Mr. Jacob, did you, Mr. Short, and the Vice 
President have a call later that day again with the President 
and Dr. Eastman?
    Mr. Jacob. So, yes, we did.
    Mr. Aguilar. What did Dr. Eastman request on that call?
    Mr. Jacob. On that phone call, which I believe was around 5 
o'clock that afternoon, Mr. Eastman stated that he had heard us 
loud and clear that morning, we were not going to be rejecting 
electors, but would we be open to considering the other course 
that we had discussed on the 4th, which would be to suspend the 
joint session and request that State legislatures reexamine 
certification of the electoral votes.
    Mr. Aguilar. That same day, January 5th, The New York Times 
ran a story about the disagreement between the President and 
the Vice President about whether the Vice President could 
determine the outcome of the election.
    Even though The New York Times story was indisputably 
correct, Donald Trump denied it. Trump issued a statement 
claiming that the Vice President had agreed that he could 
determine the outcome of the election, despite the fact that 
the Vice President had consistently rejected that position.
    Let's look at what the President said in his statement. 
``The New York Times report regarding comments Vice President 
Pence supposedly made to me today is fake news. He never said 
that. The Vice President and I are in total agreement that the 
Vice President has the power to act.''
    Mr. Jacob, how did the Vice President's team react to this 
statement from the President that the Vice President could take 
an active role in determining the winner of the Presidential 
election?
    Mr. Jacob. So, we were shocked and disappointed, because 
whoever had written and put that statement out, it was 
categorically untrue.
    Mr. Aguilar. The Vice President's Chief of Staff, Marc 
Short, had an angry phone call with Trump campaign senior 
advisor Jason Miller about this statement. Here is what Mr. 
Short and Mr. Miller told the Committee about that call.

    Mr. Heaphy. Okay. Tell me about the conversation you had with 
Jason.
    Mr. Short. It was brief. I was irritated and expressed displeasure 
that a statement could have gone out that misrepresented the Vice 
President's viewpoint without consultation.
    Mr. Heaphy. The statement says the Vice President and I are in 
total agreement, that the Vice President has the power to act. Is that 
incorrect?
    Mr. Short. I think the record shows that that's incorrect.
    Mr. Heaphy. Yeah.
    Mr. Short. I mean, we've--we've been through many documents that 
clarify that this is not where the Vice President was.
    Mr. Heaphy. Right. So, essentially, the President is sending out a 
baldly false statement about being in alignment, purported alignment, 
with the Vice President despite all of the predicate that you indicated 
had gone before about their respective positions. Is that effectively 
what happened?
    Mr. Short. I interpret the statement is false. I'll let you figure 
out who sent it out.
    Mr. George. When Marc Short contacted you, he--he was upset. Is 
that what you said?
    Mr. Jason Miller. He clearly was not pleased.
    Mr. George. Tell us what he said.
    Mr. Jason Miller. What's the process for putting out a statement 
for a meeting where only two people were in the room?
    Mr. George. Did he ask you to retract the statement?
    Mr. Jason Miller. No, he just--I think it went right to what's the 
process for putting out a statement for a meeting when only two people 
were in the room.
    Mr. George. And he clearly disagreed with the substance though, 
right, because he said that--he said the Vice President doesn't agree 
with this.
    Mr. Jason Miller. I'm trying to think what exactly he said. I mean, 
the--the tone was very clearly that he'd--that he'd used some language 
to strongly infer that the Vice President disagreed with--with that 
take, but I don't remember what that language was.
    Mr. Heaphy. Did he dictate this statement?
    Mr. Jason Miller. We--he dictated--he dictated most of it. I mean, 
typically on these--typically on these, I might have a couple of 
wording suggestions, or maybe I'd, you know, have a--a sense or a rough 
framework or something of that. But I--I know with--specifically on 
this one that it was me and him on the phone talking through it, and 
ultimately the way this came out was the way that he wanted to.

    Mr. Aguilar. The dispute between the President and the Vice 
President had grown to the point where the Vice President's 
Chief of Staff, Marc Short, was concerned that the President 
could, in Mr. Short's words, ``lash out'' at the Vice President 
on January 6th.
    In fact, Mr. Short was so concerned about it that he talked 
with the head of the Vice President's Secret Service detail on 
January 5th. Here is Mr. Short.

    Mr. Short. Concern was for the Vice President's security, and so I 
wanted to make sure the head of the Vice President's Secret Service was 
aware that--that likely, as these disagreements became more public, 
that the President would lash out in some way.

    Mr. Aguilar. After the recess, we will hear that Marc 
Short's concerns were justified. The Vice President was in 
danger.
    Mr. Chairman, I reserve.
    Chairman Thompson. Pursuant to the order of the Committee 
of today, the Chair declares the Committee in recess for a 
period of approximately 10 minutes.
    [Accordingly, at 2:41 p.m., the Committee recessed until 
2:53 p.m., when it was called to order by the Chairman.]
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman from California, Mr. 
Aguilar, is recognized.
    Mr. Aguilar. I would now like to turn to the events of 
January 6, 2021, which turned out to be a fateful day in our 
Nation's history.
    Despite the fact that the Vice President consistently told 
the President that he did not have and would not want the power 
to decide the outcome of the Presidential election, Donald 
Trump continued to pressure the Vice President, both publicly 
and privately.
    As you will hear, things reached a boiling point on January 
6th, and the consequences were disastrous.
    In the middle of the night on January 5th, into the morning 
of the 6th, around 1 a.m., President Trump tweeted ``at'' the 
Vice President, meaning that the comments in response to the 
President's tweet would also show up on the Vice President's 
Twitter feed.
    The tweet stated that the Vice President could ``come 
through for us'' and ``send it back'' to the States.
    Then, around 8 a.m. on January 6th, President Trump again 
tweeted, this time to say that the Vice President could send it 
back to the States and ``We win,'' and that ``this is the time 
for extreme courage.''
    Mr. Short told us during his deposition that the Vice 
President started a meeting on January 6th in prayer. Here is 
what Mr. Short said.

    Mr. Heaphy. You arrived at the Vice President's residence.
    Mr. Short. As would often be the case, I recall, that knowing it 
would be an important day, we gathered in prayer. And often that would 
be something the staff member would--would lead. So, it would have just 
been at that time, I believe, the Vice President, myself, Greg, and 
Chris.
    And we would have just asked for guidance and wisdom, knowing that 
the day was going to be a challenging one.

    Mr. Aguilar. Mr. Jacob, did you go to the Vice President's 
Residence on the morning of January 6th?
    Mr. Jacob. Yes.
    Mr. Aguilar. Who else was with you?
    Mr. Jacob. Marc Short, Devin O'Malley, our communications 
director, and Chris Hodgson, our legislative affairs director.
    Mr. Aguilar. Did the Vice President have a call with the 
President that morning?
    Mr. Jacob. He did.
    Mr. Aguilar. Were you with the Vice President during the 
call?
    Mr. Jacob. So, we had been putting--the Vice President had 
finalized his statement overnight. We were in the process of 
proofing it so that we could get that out. We were told that a 
call had come in from the President. The Vice President stepped 
out of the room to take that call, and no staff went with him.
    Mr. Aguilar. The President had several family members with 
him in the Oval that morning for that call. I would like to 
show you what they and others told the Select Committee about 
that call, along with never-before-seen photographs of the 
President on that call from the National Archives.

    Mr. Herschmann. When I got in, somebody called me and said that the 
family and others were in the Oval. And do I want to come up. So I--I 
went upstairs.
    Mr. Wood. And who do you recall being in the Oval Office?
    Mr. Herschmann. Don, Jr., Eric, Lara, Kimberly. I believe Meadows 
was there. At some point, Ivanka came in.
    Ms. Trump. It wasn't a specific, formal discussion. It was very 
sort-of loose and casual.
    Mr. Wood. So, then you said at some point there's a telephone 
conversation between the President and the Vice President. Is that 
correct?
    Mr. Herschmann. Yes.
    Ms. Trump. When I entered the office the second time, he was on the 
telephone with who I later found out to be was the--the Vice President.
    Mr. Wood. Could you hear the Vice President or only hear the 
President's end?
    Mr. Herschmann. Only hear the President's end. And at some point, 
it started off as a calmer tone, and everything, and then it became 
heated.
    Ms. Trump. The conversation was--was pretty heated.
    Mr. Herschmann. I think 'til it became somewhat, you know, louder 
tone, I don't think anyone was paying attention to it initially.
    Mr. George. Did you hear any part of the phone call, even if just 
this--the end that the President was speaking from?
    Mr. Luna. I did. Yes.
    Mr. George. All right. And what did you hear?
    Mr. Luna. So, as I was dropping off the note, I--my memory--I 
remember hearing the word ``wimp.''
    Either he called him a wimp--I don't remember if he said, ``You are 
a wimp,'' ``You'll be a wimp.'' ``Wimp'' is the word I remember.
    Mr. George. It's also been reported that the President said to the 
Vice President that--something to the effect of, ``You don't have the 
courage to make a hard decision.''
    General Kellogg. Worse. I don't remember exactly either, but it was 
something like that. Yeah.
    Mr. George. Do you----
    General Kellogg [continuing]. Being--you're--you're not tough 
enough to make the call.
    Ms. Trump. It was a different tone than I'd heard him take with the 
Vice President before.
    Mr. Tonolli. Did Ms. Trump share with you any more details about 
what had happened or any details about what had happened in the Oval 
Office that morning?
    Ms. Radford. That her dad had just had an upsetting conversation 
with the Vice President.
    Mr. Roselman. Do you recall anything about her demeanor either 
during the meeting or when you encountered her in Dan Scavino's office?
    Mr. Herschmann. I don't remember specifically. I mean, I think she 
was uncomfortable over the fact that there was obviously that type of 
interaction between the two of them.
    Mr. Luna. Something to the effect this is--the wording is wrong. I 
made the wrong decision 4 or 5 years ago.
    Mr. Tonolli. And the--the word that she related to you that the 
President called the Vice President, I apologize for being impolite, 
but do you remember what she said her father called him?
    Ms. Radford. The P-word.

    Mr. Aguilar. Mr. Jacob, how would you describe the demeanor 
of the Vice President following that call with the President?
    Mr. Jacob. When he came back into the room, I would say 
that he was steely, determined, grim.
    Mr. Aguilar. Of course, the most dangerous part of what 
Donald Trump did on January 6th was what he did himself. As 
will be discussed in detail in a future hearing, our 
investigation found that early drafts of the January 6th 
Ellipse speech prepared for the President included no mention 
of the Vice President. But the President revised it to include 
criticism of the Vice President and then further ad-libbed.
    Here is what the President said on January 6th after his 
call with Vice President Pence.

    President Trump. I hope Mike is going to do the right thing. I hope 
so. I hope so. Because if Mike Pence does the right thing, we win the 
election.
    All Vice President Pence has to do is send it back to the States to 
recertify, and we become President. And you are the happiest people. 
And I actually--I just spoke to Mike.
    I said, ``Mike, that doesn't take courage. What takes courage is to 
do nothing.'' That takes courage. And then we're stuck with a President 
who lost the election by a lot, and we have to live with that for 4 
more years. We're just not going to let that happen.
    And Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us. And if he 
doesn't, that will be a--a sad day for our country.
    And they want to recertify their votes. They want to recertify. But 
the only way that can happen is if Mike Pence agrees to send it back.
    So, I hope Mike has the courage to do what he has to do. And I hope 
he doesn't listen to the RINOs and the stupid people that he's 
listening to.

    Mr. Aguilar. Of course, we all know what happened next. The 
President's words had an effect. President Trump's supporters 
became angry. When the Vice President issued his public letter, 
the crowd at the Capitol erupted in anger. The rioters, who had 
erected makeshift gallows, began chanting, ``Hang Mike Pence!''
    Testimony in our investigation has made clear what the 
target of the rioters' ire was: Vice President Mike Pence.
    The rioters breached the Capitol at 2:13 p.m.
    [Video shown.]
    Mr. Aguilar. Now, let's take a look at what was going on at 
the White House at this time.
    We received testimony that the President's Chief of Staff, 
Mark Meadows, was notified of the violence at the Capitol by 2 
p.m. and likely earlier.
    The testimony further establishes that Mr. Meadows quickly 
informed the President and that he did so before the President 
issued his 2:24 p.m. tweet criticizing Vice President Pence for 
not having ``courage'' to do what needed to be done.
    Here is what the President wrote in his 2:24 p.m. tweet 
while the violence at the Capitol was going on. Here is what 
the rioters thought.

    Voice. [N]othing but a traitor, and he deserves to burn with the 
rest of `em.
    Voice. So this--so this all escalated after Pence--what--what 
happened? Did Pence--Pence, yeah, Pence didn't do what we wanted.
    Voice. Pence voted against Trump.
    Voice. Okay. And that's when all this started?
    Voice. Yup. That's when we marched on the Capitol. We've been shot 
at with rubber bullets, tear gas.
    Mr. Fuentes. We just heard that Mike Pence is not going to reject 
any fraudulent electoral votes.
    Crowd. Boo!
    Voice. You're a traitor!
    Mr. Fuentes. That's right. You've heard it here first. Mike Pence 
has betrayed the United States of America.
    Crowd. Boo!
    Voice. Fuck you, Mike Pence!
    Mr. Fuentes. Mike Pence has betrayed this President, and he has 
betrayed the people of the United States, and we will never, ever 
forget.
    Voice. It's real simple. Pence betrayed us, which apparently 
everybody knew he was going to, and the President mentioned it like 
five times when he talked. You can go back and watch the President's 
video.
    Voice. This is our Capitol. Let's be respectful to it.
    Voice. There's four million people coming in. So, there's a lot 
of----
    Voice. We love you guys. We love the cops.
    Voice. [inaudible]
    Voice. It's only a matter of time. Justice is coming.

    Mr. Aguilar. Although the President's Chief of Staff, Mark 
Meadows, has refused to testify before this Committee, Mr. 
Meadows's aide, Ben Williamson, and White House Deputy Press 
Secretary Sarah Matthews testified that Mr. Meadows went to the 
dining room near the Oval Office to tell the President about 
the violence at the Capitol before the President's 2:24 p.m. 
tweet.
    In future hearings you will hear more about exactly what 
was happening in the White House at that time. But here is what 
some White House staff told the Select Committee.

    Mr. George. Do you know where he went?
    Mr. Williamson. Yes, I followed him down the hallway, and I 
followed him into the Outer Oval corridor, which is the hallway between 
the Oval Office hallway and the Outer Oval section of the Oval Office. 
I followed him into that little corridor hallway. I saw him walk into 
Outer Oval. I maybe took a step into Outer Oval and then left. And I 
don't know where he went outside of that, but it looked like he was 
headed in the direction of the Oval Office.
    Ms. Matthews. You know, we had all talked about--at that point--
about how it was bad and the, you know, situation was getting out of 
hand. And I--I know Ben Williamson and I were conferring, and we 
thought that the President needed to tweet something and tweet 
something immediately. And I think when Kayleigh gave us that order of 
don't say anything to the media, I told her that I thought the 
President needed to tweet something.
    And then I remember--then I remember getting a notification on my 
phone. And I was sitting in a room with Roma and Ben, and we all got a 
notification. So, we knew it was a tweet from the President, and we 
looked down and it was a--a--a tweet about Mike Pence.
    Mr. Williamson. I believe I had sent him a text saying that we may 
want to put out some sort of statement because the situation was--was 
getting a little hairy over at the Capitol. And then it was common for 
after I would text him, I would just go down and--and see him in 
person.
    Mr. George. You went down to speak with Mark Meadows after this. 
What was that conversation?
    Mr. Williamson. Very brief. I went down and told him the same thing 
I have in the text that I can recall. And I--I don't remember anything 
that was said between us other than I told him that and to my 
recollection he immediately got up and--and left his office.

    Mr. Aguilar. Our investigation found that immediately after 
the President's 2:24 p.m. tweet, the crowds, both outside the 
Capitol and inside the Capitol, surged.
    The crowds inside the Capitol were able to overwhelm the 
law enforcement presence, and the Vice President was quickly 
evacuated from his ceremonial Senate office to a secure 
location within the Capitol complex.

    Crowd. Whose house?
    Crowd. Our house!
    Mr. Aguilar. By 2:24 p.m., the Secret Service had moved Vice 
President Pence from the Senate Chamber to his office across the hall.
    Mr. Hodgson. The noise from the rioters became audible, at which 
point we recognized that maybe they had gotten into the building.
    Mr. Aguilar. Then President Trump tweeted, ``Mike Pence didn't have 
the courage to do what should have been done to protect our Country and 
our Constitution, giving States a chance to certify a corrected set of 
facts, not the fraudulent or inaccurate ones which they were asked to 
previously certify. USA demands the truth!''
    Voice. Bring out Pence!
    Voice. Bring him out!
    Ms. Matthews. It was clear that it was escalating and escalating 
quickly.
    Crowd. Hang Mike Pence. Hang Mike Pence.
    Ms. Matthews. So then when that tweet--the Mike Pence tweet--was 
sent out, I remember us saying that that was the last thing that needed 
to be tweeted at that moment. The situation was already bad, and so it 
felt like he was pouring gasoline on the fire by tweeting that.
    Mr. Aguilar. Thirty seconds later, rioters already inside the 
Capitol opened the East Rotunda door just down the hall. And just 30 
seconds after that, rioters breached the Crypt one floor below the Vice 
President.
    Mr. Hodgson. The Secret Service couldn't control the situation and 
do their job of keeping him safe.
    Mr. Aguilar. At 2:26 p.m., Secret Service rushed Vice President 
Pence down the stairs.
    Mr. Jacob. I think they had been trying to figure out whether they 
had a clear route to get us to where they--it was that they wanted to 
move us to.
    Mr. Hodgson. We moved pretty quickly down the stairs and through 
various hallways and tunnels to the secure location. Upon arriving 
there, there was further discussion as to whether or not we were going 
to leave the Capitol complex or stay where we were.
    Mr. Aguilar. Vice President Pence and his team ultimately were led 
to a secure location where they stayed for the next 4\1/2\ hours, 
barely missing rioters a few feet away.

    Mr. Aguilar. Approximately 40 feet, that is all there was, 
40 feet between the Vice President and the mob.
    Mr. Jacob, you were there. Seeing that for the first time, 
does it surprise you to see how close the mob was to the 
evacuation route that you took? Forty feet is the distance from 
me to you, roughly.
    Mr. Jacob. I could hear the din of the rioters in the 
building while we moved, but I don't think I was aware that 
they were as close as that.
    Mr. Aguilar. Make no mistake about the fact that the Vice 
President's life was in danger. A recent court filing by the 
Department of Justice explains that a confidential informant 
from the Proud Boys told the FBI that the Proud Boys would have 
killed Mike Pence if given a chance.
    This witness, whom the FBI affidavit refers to as ``W-1,'' 
``stated that other members of the group talked about things 
they did that day, and they said that anyone they got their 
hands on they would have killed, including Nancy Pelosi.''
    W-1 further stated that members of the Proud Boys said that 
they would have killed Mike Pence if given a chance.
    We understand that Congressional leaders and others were 
evacuated from the Capitol complex during the attack. We would 
like to show you what happened after the Vice President was 
evacuated from the Senate.

    Mr. Aguilar. The Select Committee has obtained never-before-seen 
photos from the National Archives that show Vice President Pence 
sheltering in a secure, underground location as rioters overwhelmed the 
Capitol.
    At 4:19 p.m., Vice President Pence is seen looking at a tweet the 
President had just sent, a tweet asking the rioters to leave the 
Capitol.
    After 4\1/2\ hours spent on working to restore order, the Vice 
President returned to the Senate floor to continue the certification of 
electors.

    Mr. Aguilar. So, Vice President Pence was a focus of the 
violent attack.
    Mr. Jacob, did the Vice President leave the Capitol complex 
during the attack?
    Mr. Jacob. He did not.
    Mr. Aguilar. Could you please explain why the Vice 
President refused to leave the Capitol complex?
    Mr. Jacob. When we got down to the secure location the 
Secret Service directed us to get into the cars, which I did. 
Then I noticed that the Vice President had not. So, I got out 
of the car that I had gotten into, and I understood that the 
Vice President had refused to get into the car.
    The head of his Secret Service detail, Tim, had said, ``I 
assure you; we are not going to drive out of the building 
without your permission.'' The Vice President had said 
something to the effect of, ``Tim, I know you, I trust you, but 
you are not the one behind the wheel.''
    The Vice President did not want to take any chance that the 
world would see the Vice President of the United States fleeing 
the United States Capitol. He was determined that we would 
complete the work that we had set out to do that day that it 
was his Constitutional duty to see through, and that the 
rioters who had breached the Capitol would not have the 
satisfaction of disrupting the proceedings beyond the day on 
which they were supposed to be completed.
    Mr. Aguilar. Let me see if I understand this right. You 
were told to get in the cars. How many of the Vice President's 
staff got in the cars while he did not?
    Mr. Jacob. Most of us.
    Mr. Aguilar. During our investigation, we received 
testimony that while the Vice President was in a secure 
location within the Capitol complex, he continued the business 
of Government.
    We understand that the Vice President reached out to 
Congressional leaders, like the Acting Secretary of Defense and 
others, to check on their safety and to address the growing 
crisis.
    In addition, the Vice President's Chief of Staff, Marc 
Short, made several calls to senior Government officials.
    Here is Mr. Short's testimony regarding his call with 
Representative Kevin McCarthy.

    Mr. Short. He indicated that he had had some conversation. I don't 
recall whether it was with the President or somebody at the White 
House, but I think he expressed frustration that--not taking the 
circumstances seriously as they should at that moment.
    Mr. Heaphy. So, Mr. McCarthy indicated he'd been in touch with 
someone at the White House, and he conveyed to you that they weren't 
taking this as seriously as they should. You have to answer. Yes or no?
    Mr. Short. Yes, yes.
    Mr. Heaphy. Okay.

    Mr. Aguilar. While the Vice President made several calls to 
check on the safety of others, it was his own life that was in 
great danger.
    Mr. Jacob, did Donald Trump ever call the Vice President to 
check on his safety?
    Mr. Jacob. He did not.
    Mr. Aguilar. Mr. Jacob, how did Vice President Pence and 
Mrs. Pence react to that?
    Mr. Jacob. With frustration.
    Mr. Wood. Mr. Jacob, immediately before you and the Vice 
President were evacuated to a secure location within the 
Capitol, you hit ``send'' on an email to John Eastman 
explaining why his legal theory about the Vice President's role 
was wrong.
    You ended your email by stating that, ``thanks to your 
bullshit, we are now under siege.'' We will take a look at that 
email.
    Dr. Eastman replied--and this is hard to believe--but his 
reply back to you was, ``The `siege' is because you and your 
boss,'' presumably referring to the Vice President of the 
United States, ``did not do what was necessary to allow this to 
be aired in a public way so the American people could see for 
themselves what happened.''
    Mr. Jacob, later that day you wrote again to Dr. Eastman. 
Let's show that email on the screen.
    In that email you wrote, and I quote, ``Did you advise the 
President that in your professional judgement the Vice 
President DOES NOT have the power to decide things 
unilaterally?'' You ended that email saying, ``[I]t does not 
appear that the President ever got the memo.''
    Dr. Eastman then replied, ``He has been so advised.'' He 
ends his email with, ``But you know him. Once he gets something 
in his head, it is hard to get him to change course.''
    Mr. Jacob, when Dr. Eastman wrote, ``Once he gets something 
in his head, it is hard to get him to change course,'' did you 
understand the ``he'' in that email to refer to the President 
of the United States?
    Mr. Jacob. I did.
    Mr. Wood. Mr. Jacob, did you hear from Dr. Eastman further 
after the riot had been quelled? If so, what did he ask?
    Mr. Jacob. Late that evening, after the joint session had 
been reconvened, the Vice President had given a statement to 
the Nation saying that violence was not going to win, freedom 
wins, and that the people were going to get back to doing their 
work.
    Later that evening, Mr. Eastman emailed me to point out 
that, in his view, the Vice President's speech to the Nation 
violated the Electoral Count Act, that the Electoral Count Act 
had been violated because the debate on Arizona had not been 
completed in 2 hours--of course, it couldn't be, since there 
was an intervening riot of several hours--and that the speeches 
that the Majority and Minority leaders had been allowed to make 
also violated the Electoral Count Act, because they hadn't been 
counted against the debate time.
    Then he implored me: Now that we have established that the 
Electoral Count Act isn't so sacrosanct as you have made it out 
to be, I implore you one last time, can the Vice President 
please do what we have been asking him to do these last 2 days, 
suspend the joint session, send it back to the States?
    Mr. Wood. We will show you the text of that email, which 
Dr. Eastman wrote at 11:44 p.m. on January 6th.
    So, after the attack on the Capitol and after law 
enforcement had secured the Capitol, he still wrote, as you 
described, ``So now that the precedent has been set that the 
Electoral Count Act is not quite so sacrosanct as was 
previously claimed, I implore you to consider one more 
relatively minor violation and adjourn for 10 days to allow the 
legislatures to finish their investigations . . . ''
    So, even after the attack on the Capitol had been quelled, 
Dr. Eastman requested, in writing no less, that the Vice 
President violate the law by delaying the certification and 
sending the question back to the States.
    Is that correct, Mr. Jacob?
    Mr. Jacob. It is.
    Mr. Wood. Did you eventually share Dr. Eastman's proposal 
with Vice President Pence?
    Mr. Jacob. Not right at that time, because the Vice 
President was completing the work that it was his duty to do. 
But a day or two later, back at the White House, I did show him 
that final email from Mr. Eastman.
    Mr. Wood. What was Vice President Pence's reaction when you 
showed him the email where Dr. Eastman, after the attack on the 
Capitol, still asked that the Vice President delay 
certification and send it back to the States?
    Mr. Jacob. He said, ``That's rubber room stuff.''
    Mr. Aguilar. I am sorry, Mr. Wood.
    He said it is ``rubber room stuff''?
    Mr. Jacob. Yes, Congressman.
    Mr. Aguilar. What did you interpret that to mean?
    Mr. Jacob. I understood it to mean that, after having seen 
play out what happens when you convince people that there is a 
decision to be made in the Capitol legitimately about who is to 
be the President and the consequences of that, that he was 
still pushing us to do what he had been asking us to do for the 
previous 2 days, that that was certifiably crazy.
    Mr. Aguilar. We know that the Vice President did not do 
what Dr. Eastman requested, because he presided over the 
completion of the counting of electoral votes late in that 
evening.

    Vice President Pence. The number of electors appointed to vote for 
President of the United States is 538. Within that whole number, a 
majority is 270. The votes for President of the United States are as 
follows: Joseph R. Biden, Jr., of the State of Delaware has received 
306 votes. Donald J. Trump of the State of Florida has received 232 
votes.
    The whole number of electors appointed to vote for Vice President 
of the United States is 538. Within that whole number, a majority is 
270. The votes for Vice President of the United States are as follows: 
Kamala D. Harris of the State of California has received 306 votes. 
Michael R. Pence of the State of Indiana has received 232 votes.
    The announcement of the state of the vote by the President of the 
Senate shall be deemed a sufficient declaration of the persons elected 
President and Vice President of the United States, each for the term 
beginning on the 20th day of January, 2021, and shall be entered, 
together with the list of the votes, on the Journals of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives.

    Mr. Aguilar. Mr. Jacob, we heard earlier that you and the 
Vice President and the team started January 6th with a prayer. 
You faced a lot of danger that day. This is a personal 
question, but how did your faith guide you on January 6th?
    Mr. Jacob. My faith really sustained me through it. I, down 
in the secure location, pulled out my Bible, read through it, 
and just took great comfort.
    Daniel 6 was where I went. In Daniel 6, Daniel has become 
the second in command of Babylon, a pagan nation that he 
completely faithfully serves. He refuses an order from the king 
that he cannot follow, and he does his duty, consistent with 
his oath to God. I felt that that is what had played out that 
day.
    Mr. Aguilar. It spoke to you.
    Mr. Jacob. Yes.
    Mr. Aguilar. At the end of the day, Marc Short sent the 
Vice President a text message with a Bible verse. Here is what 
he told the Select Committee.

    Mr. Short. At 3:50 in the morning, when we finally adjourned and 
headed our ways, I remember texting the Vice President a passage from 2 
Timothy, chapter 4, verse 7 about, ``I fought the good fight, I 
finished the race, I have kept the faith.''

    Mr. Aguilar. He started his day with a prayer and ended his 
day with a Bible verse: ``I have fought the good fight, I have 
finished the race, I have kept the faith.''
    White House attorney Eric Herschmann testified that the 
next day, January 7th, he received a call from Dr. Eastman. 
Here is Mr. Herschmann's account of that call.

    Mr. Herschmann. The day after, Eastman--I don't remember why--he 
called me--or he texted me or called me, wanted to talk with me, and he 
said he couldn't reach others. And he started to ask me about something 
dealing with Georgia and preserving something potentially for appeal.
    And I said to him, ``Are you out of your f-ing mind?''
    I said--I said I only want to hear two words coming out of your 
mouth from now on, ``Orderly transition.'' And I said I don't want to 
hear any other f-ing words coming out of your mouth no matter what 
other than ``orderly transition.'' Repeat those words to me.
    Mr. Wood. What did he say?
    Mr. Herschmann. Eventually he said, ``Orderly transition.''
    I said, ``Good, John. Now I'm going to give you the best free legal 
advice you're ever getting in your life. Get a great f-ing criminal 
defense lawyer. You're going to need it.'' And then I hung up on him.

    Mr. Aguilar. In fact, just a few days later, Dr. Eastman 
emailed Rudy Giuliani and requested that he be included on a 
list of potential recipients of a Presidential pardon. Dr. 
Eastman's email stated, ``I've decided that I should be on the 
pardon list, if that is still in the works.''
    Dr. Eastman did not receive his Presidential pardon. So, 
let's see what Dr. Eastman did as a result when he was deposed 
by this Committee.

    Mr. Eastman. I assert my Fifth Amendment right against being 
compelled to be a witness against myself.
    Mr. Wood. Did the Trump legal team ask you to prepare a memorandum 
regarding the Vice President's role in the counting of electoral votes 
at the joint session of Congress on January 6, 2021?
    Mr. Eastman. Fifth.
    Mr. Wood. Dr. Eastman, did you advise the President of the United 
States that the Vice President could reject electors from 7 States and 
declare that the President had been reelected?
    Mr. Eastman. Fifth.
    Mr. Wood. Dr. Eastman, the first sentence of the memo starts off by 
saying 7 States have transmitted dual slates of electors to the 
President of the Senate. Is that statement in this memo true?
    Mr. Eastman. Fifth.
    Mr. Wood. Has President Trump authorized you to discuss publicly 
your January 4, 2021, conversation with him?
    Mr. Eastman. Fifth.
    Mr. Wood. Are--so, is it your position that you can discuss in the 
media direct conversations you had with the President of the United 
States, but you will not discuss those same conversations with this 
Committee?
    Mr. Eastman. Fifth.

    Mr. Aguilar. Dr. Eastman pled the Fifth 100 times.
    Finally, let's hear from a Federal court judge, the only 
one to date who has opined on whether the President was 
involved in criminal activity.
    Page 36 of Judge Carter's ruling says, ``Based on the 
evidence, the Court finds it more likely than not that 
President Trump corruptly attempted to obstruct the Joint 
Session of Congress on January 6, 2021.''
    Page 40 of the ruling says, ``Based on the evidence, the 
Court find that it is more likely than not that President Trump 
and Dr. Eastman dishonestly conspired to obstruct the Joint 
Session of Congress on January 6, 2021.''
    Page 44: ``Dr. Eastman and President Trump launched a 
campaign to overturn a democratic election, an action 
unprecedented in American history. Their campaign was not 
confined to the ivory tower--it was a coup in search of a legal 
theory.''
    Mr. Jacob, what would have happened to our democracy if 
Vice President Pence had gone along with this plan and 
certified Donald Trump as the winner of the 2020 election?
    Mr. Jacob. So, there would have been short-term and long-
term effects.
    The short term I have previously described: A 
Constitutional jump-ball situation, political chaos in 
Washington, lawsuits, and who knows what happening in the 
streets. You would have had the Vice President of the United 
States having declared that the outcomes of these State 
elections were incorrect.
    So, for all of those reasons, there would have been 
significant short-term consequences.
    But in the long term, we would have established a situation 
where a Vice President would have asserted that one person 
could have the authority to determine the outcome of an 
election--which is antithetical to everything in our democracy, 
antithetical to the rule of law.
    So, it would have been significant impacts both in the 
short and the long term.
    Mr. Aguilar. Judge Luttig, in the statement you released 
earlier today, you wrote that the efforts by President Trump to 
overturn the 2020 election were, ``the most reckless, 
insidious, and calamitous failures in both legal and political 
judgment in American history.''
    What did you mean by that?
    Judge Luttig. Exactly what I said, Congressman.
    Mr. Aguilar. Thank you, Judge.
    Thank you, Mr. Jacob.
    Mr. Chairman, this was an informative hearing, a powerful 
hearing. I am grateful for your leadership and the leadership 
of the distinguished Vice Chair.
    Donald Trump knew he lost the 2020 election, but he could 
not bring himself to participate in the peaceful transfer of 
power. So, he latched on to a scheme that, once again, he knew 
was illegal. When the Vice President refused to go along with 
it, he unleashed a violent mob against him.
    When we began, I asked how we got to this place. I think 
the answer to that question starts with the fact that people in 
positions of power put their political party before their 
country. It cannot be allowed to continue.
    I will yield back now, Mr. Chairman.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you very much.
    Without objection, the Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for a closing statement.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Thank you to my colleague, Representative Aguilar.
    Thank you very much to our witnesses today, Mr. Jacob and 
Judge Luttig. Thank you for being here with us.
    We have seen so far in our hearings that President Trump 
knew that his claims of a stolen election were false. You have 
seen that he knew that Mike Pence could not legally refuse to 
count electoral votes. You have seen what President Trump did 
to pressure Mike Pence into taking illegal action.
    Over the course of our next hearings, you will see 
information about President Trump's efforts, John Eastman's 
efforts, the Trump legal team's efforts to apply pressure to 
Republican State legislatures, State officials, and others.
    Judge Carter has recently written, ``Dr. Eastman's actions 
in these few weeks indicate that his and President Trump's 
pressure campaign to stop the electoral count did not end with 
Vice President Pence. It targeted every tier of Federal and 
State elected officials.''
    We will examine all of those threats. We will examine the 
Trump team's determination to transmit materially false 
electoral slates from multiple States to officials of the 
Executive and Legislative branches of our Government. We will 
examine the pressures put on State legislatures to convene to 
reverse lawful election results.
    An honorable man receiving the information and advice that 
Mr. Trump received from his campaign experts and his staff, a 
man who loved his country more than himself, would have 
conceded this election. Indeed, we know that a number of 
President Trump's closest aides urged him to do so.
    This Committee will address all of these issues in greater 
detail in the coming weeks.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlelady yields back.
    Judge Luttig and Mr. Jacob, our Nation owes you a great 
debt for your knowledge, integrity, and your loyalty to our 
Constitution. You and Vice President Pence are exactly the 
people our Nation needed at a critical time. You had the 
courage to do what was right.
    In the weeks leading up to January 6th, many people failed 
this test when they had to choose between their oath to the 
country or the demands of Donald Trump. But there were others 
who, like you, stood tall in the face of intimidation and put 
our democracy first.
    They include the judges who rejected the bogus claims of 
election fraud, the senior Justice Department officials who 
stood up to Donald Trump, and the State officials whom we will 
hear from at our next hearing.
    We are deeply grateful for your courage and devotion to our 
country.
    There are some who think the danger has passed, that even 
though there was violence and a corrupt attempt to overturn the 
Presidential election, the system worked. I look at it another 
way: Our system nearly failed and our democratic foundation 
destroyed but for people like you.
    Judge Luttig, I want to give you an opportunity to share 
your thoughts on the on-going threat.
    You have written, ``The clear and present danger to our 
democracy now is that former President Donald Trump and other 
political allies appear prepared . . . to seize the Presidency 
in 2024 if Mr. Trump or one of his anointed candidates is not 
elected by the American people.''
    What do you mean by this?
    Judge Luttig. Mr. Chairman, I am honored beyond words by 
your words. I was honored on January 6, 2021, then also honored 
beyond words, to have been able to come to the aid of Vice 
President Mike Pence.
    I prayed that day, just like the Vice President prayed that 
day. I believe we may have prayed the same prayer to the same 
God. I prayed that same prayer with my wife this morning before 
I came into these hearings.
    I have written, as you said, Chairman Thompson, that, 
today, almost 2 years after that fateful day in January 2021, 
that, still, Donald Trump and his allies and supporters are a 
clear and present danger to American democracy.
    That is not because of what happened on January 6th. It is 
because, to this very day, the former President, his allies and 
supporters pledge that, in the Presidential election of 2024, 
if the former President or his anointed successor as the 
Republican Party Presidential candidate were to lose that 
election, that they would attempt to overturn that 2024 
election in the same way that they attempted to overturn the 
2020 election but succeed in 2024 where they failed in 2020.
    I don't speak those words lightly. I would have never 
spoken those words ever in my life except that that is what the 
former President and his allies are telling us.
    As I said in that New York Times op-ed wherein I was 
speaking about the Electoral Count Act of 1887, the former 
President and his allies are executing that blueprint for 2024 
in open and plain view of the American public.
    I repeat: I would have never uttered one single one of 
those words unless the former President and his allies were 
candidly and proudly speaking those exact words to America.
    Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to appear here 
today for these proceedings.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you again, Judge Luttig.
    As a part of the Select Committee's charge to make 
recommendations that are informed by other investigative 
findings, we will be reviewing the views shared by Judge Luttig 
and other experts on potential improvements to the Electoral 
Count Act, among a range of other initiatives.
    I know the information we have presented over the last week 
is shocking--the idea that a President of the United States 
would orchestrate a scheme to stay in power after the people 
have voted him out of office.
    We are able to present this information because so many 
witnesses have cooperated with our probe. But the fact is, 
there are more people with direct knowledge, with evidence 
germane to our investigation. I ask those who might be on the 
fence about cooperating to reach out to us.
    The Committee's website address is being displayed behind 
me: january6th.house.gov. There, you can view the evidence we 
presented in our hearings and find a tip line to submit any 
information you might think would be helpful for our 
investigation. Despite how you might not think it is important, 
send us what you think.
    I thank those who have sent us evidence for their bravery 
and patriotism.
    Without objection, Members will be permitted 10 business 
days to submit statements for the record, including opening 
remarks and additional questions for the witnesses.
    The Chair requests those in the hearing room remain seated 
until the Capitol Police have escorted Members from the room.
    Without objection, the Committee stands adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 3:45 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.]

                                 [all]
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 6 (Monday, January 10, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S105-S106]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                               Democracy

  Madam President, now on defending democracy, last week, the Nation 
observed the 1-year anniversary of the greatest violent assault against 
our democracy since the time of the American Civil War. Though the 
Capitol attack of January 6, 2021, was confined to a single day, the 
attacks on our democracy have not ceased. The Big Lie--the terrible 
fantasy that our elections are rife with voter fraud and that Donald 
Trump won the 2020 election--lives on to this day and is spreading 
throughout our country, used to undermine our democracy.
  Donald Trump has such an infantile ego that he cannot accept that he 
lost. So he spreads the Big Lie. But just as bad--or almost as bad--are 
all those in politics, in the media, and elsewhere who know it is a lie 
but continue to spread it, to the grave detriment of the fundamental 
roots of this country, its democracy.
  Tomorrow, President Biden will travel to Georgia and make the moral 
case to the Nation that the time has come to act to defend democracy 
and protect voting rights, even if it means changing Senate rules to 
restore the Senate.
  Every single lover of democracy across America, especially those of 
us in this Chamber, should take heart of the President's message and 
ask ourselves: What can we do to protect free and fair elections in 
this country?
  The Senate, I believe, stands ready to follow through on the 
President's call. Later this week, we will hold a vote yet again on 
legislation to protect our democracy and protect the sacred right to 
vote. Everyone in this Chamber will have a chance to go on record. Will 
Republicans join Democrats in a bipartisan manner to move forward on 
defending democracy or will they once again mount a filibuster and 
offer their implicit endorsement of the Big Lie?
  I hope they join us, but to date, unfortunately, I have seen precious 
little suggesting they will do so.
  On the contrary, our Republican colleagues have gone to great lengths 
recently to distract from the dangers of Donald Trump's Big Lie. Senate 
Republicans are so stung by our arguments about voter fraud and the Big 
Lie that the Republican leader has actually tried to argue that it is 
actually Democrats pushing a big lie when we warn about voter 
suppression.
  The threats of voter suppression are not false; they are dangerous. 
The Republican leader's line of argument is gas-lighting, pure and 
simple. The Republican leader has pointed repeatedly to the experience 
of the 2020 election as proof, somehow, that there exists no effort to 
suppress the vote. But he ignores that the problem today is not just 
about what happened during the 2020 election. It is about what happened 
after, and it is happening today.
  If Leader McConnell doesn't want to get into specifics about the laws 
passed by Republican legislators across this country to limit the right 
to vote, then we Democrats will. Despite the fact that the 2020 
election was free, fair, and accurate, in the year that followed at 
least 19 States suddenly decided to rewrite the rules that govern the 
way people voted in their respective States. At least 33--33--new laws 
have passed across the country that will make it harder to vote, harder 
to register to vote, and, worst of all, potentially empower partisans 
to arbitrate outcomes of future elections instead of nonpartisan 
election workers. And that may be just the beginning because 
legislatures in various States are preparing new laws as they enter the 
2022 sessions of their legislatures.
  I ask my Republican colleagues: Take a look at what has happened in 
many of the Republican-led State legislatures. When Republicans in 
States like Texas reduce polling hours and polling locations, how does 
that not make it harder for people to vote? When Republicans in States 
like Florida, Kansas, Iowa, and Texas make it harder for people to even 
register to vote--even to register to vote--how is that not suppressing 
their fundamental right to vote at all? What does that have to do with 
election security?
  When Republicans in States like Georgia, Indiana, and Florida cut 
back on the number and availability of locations where people can drop 
off their absentee ballots, how can Republicans say that voting hasn't 
been made harder? And when Republicans in States like Georgia make it a 
crime to give food and water to people waiting in line at the polls, 
how is that not making it harder for them to cast a ballot?
  Some of the examples are especially egregious. According to one 
recent report, Lincoln County in Georgia is looking to eliminate all 
but one polling location in the entire county before the next 
election--one location in a whole big county. That is disgusting.
  Some voters who live in the county would have to drive 23 miles just 
to drop off a ballot. This in no way makes voting more convenient. It 
makes it an enormous burden.
  Let's be abundantly clear. These new anti-voter laws are on the books 
today because their authors cited the Big Lie, cited the fictitious 
bugaboo of voter fraud, and are trying to succeed where the 
insurrection failed. It is a slow-motion insurrection but a very, very 
pernicious one.
  We have yet to hear, on substance, any serious attempt from Senate 
Republicans defending these terrible new laws. They don't mention them. 
The truth is our Republican colleagues cannot defend them because the 
goal of these laws is very clear: They are deliberately targeting all 
the ways that younger, poorer, and non-White Americans typically access 
the ballot.
  And by blocking this Chamber from taking any action, Senate 
Republicans are implicitly offering their own endorsement of the Big 
Lie.
  Senate Democrats have been clear of our intentions from the start: 
The Senate must pass legislation that will safeguard our democracy and 
protect people's right to vote. It is why we have pushed the Freedom to 
Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act numerous 
times here on the floor, only for Republicans to filibuster them and 
prevent the Chamber from having so much as a debate.
  By hijacking the rules of the Senate and preventing any movement, 
Republicans are saying they oppose policies that guarantee same-day 
voter registration, policies that safeguard against election 
subversion, policies that protect poll workers, and policies that 
prevent faulty and dangerous voter roll purges.
  By blocking action in the Senate, Republicans are saying they oppose 
efforts to fight the power of dark money and efforts to end partisan 
gerrymandering. Senate Republicans are saying they are perfectly fine 
with laws that limit voter registration, limit early voting, and limit 
the number of polling places and drop boxes. They are even fine with 
policies that criminalize giving food and drink to voters at the polls.
  These laws are anathema to the very spirit of our democracy. They are 
Jim Crow 2, and it is the Republican Party, by and large in this 
Senate, supporting the reenactment of those Jim Crow laws.
  If Republicans refuse to join us in a bipartisan spirit, if they 
continue to hijack the rules of the Senate to turn this Chamber into a 
deep freezer, we are going to consider the appropriate steps necessary 
to restore the Senate so we can pass these proposals and send them to 
the President's desk.
  On this month--the same month we mark the 1-year anniversary of an 
armed insurrection at the U.S. Capitol--the question before the Senate 
is a simple one: How will we find a path forward on protecting our 
freedoms in the 21st century?
  Members of this body must now face a choice: They can follow in the 
footsteps of our patriotic predecessors in this Chamber or they can sit 
by as the fabric of our democracy unravels before their very eyes.

[[Page S106]]

  I yield the floor.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 4 (Thursday, January 6, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S55-S78]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                   Recognition of the Majority Leader

  The majority leader is recognized.


                        Anniversary of January 6

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, it is difficult to put into words what it 
is like to stand here on the floor of the U.S. Senate on this day of 
all days.
  For 163 years, this space has been the home of the upper Chamber of 
the American Congress. What has taken place inside this room over the 
centuries has determined in very real ways the trajectory of our 
Nation. In this room, we carry on the mission handed down to us by the 
Framers to assure the voice of the people is heard and represented and 
acted upon.
  But 1 year ago today, on January 6, 2021, mob violence descended upon 
this Chamber and upon this Capitol. Thousands of rioters, possessed by 
equal measures of rage, conspiracy, and spurred into action by the 
sitting President of the United States, attacked the U.S. Capitol in an 
armed, violent, and deadly effort to halt the peaceful transfer of 
power.
  Its windows were smashed. Its offices were vandalized. And lawmakers 
and our staffs--everyday citizens who love their country and work here 
every day--feared for their lives. Nearly 140 police officers were 
injured, and at least 5 people lost their lives that day or in its 
aftermath.
  The warnings of history are clear. When democracies are in danger, it 
often starts with a mob. That is what happened a year ago here in this 
building: a mob attack. And for mob violence to win the day, it doesn't 
need everyone to join in. It just needs a critical mass of people to 
stay out of the way, to ignore it, to underestimate it, to excuse it 
and even condone it.
  The mob can start out as a small number, but if it is allowed to grow 
and leaders egg on the mob, encourage it, it can become poison. That is 
what Donald Trump is doing, as even his response to President Biden's 
speech today showed. And once that happens, the unthinkable could 
become real. Democracy erodes and could, God forbid--God forbid, horror 
of horrors--vanish.
  The poisonous mob mentality lives on today in the threats against 
election workers, poll workers, even other public servants like school 
board members and health workers. This is what erodes a democracy. And 
Donald Trump today continues to spread his poisonous vile about the Big 
Lie.
  To borrow from President Franklin Roosevelt, the violent insurrection 
of January 6 was a day that will live forever in infamy, a permanent 
stain in the story of the American democracy and the final bitter, 
unforgivable act of the worst President in modern times.
  Today, on this first anniversary, Members from both the House and 
Senate and our staffs, the President, and the Vice President are here 
today at the Capitol, and one of our purposes is to share memories in 
commemoration of that day. At noon we will hold a moment of silence in 
honor of those who were lost because of the attack.
  And to all my colleagues and to staff who struggle to get through 
today, you are not alone. You are not alone. We are here by your side. 
The Employee Assistance Program has resources available to all Senate 
staff who are processing what happened a year ago.
  Let me share my personal experience on that day. As I have recounted 
many times since then, my personal experience that day was, in some 
ways, like

[[Page S56]]

the opening sentence of Charles Dickens' ``A Tale of Two Cities'': the 
best of times, the worst of times.
  First came the best of times. Twelve hours before the attack, at 4 
a.m. in the morning, I learned--or several hours before the attack, at 
4 a.m., I learned that our two Democratic Senators had won in Georgia 
and we would gain the majority.
  At 4 a.m. it became clear. I tried to get some sleep, couldn't, got 
down in my car, drove to Washington, and got to the floor of this 
Chamber at 1 p.m., for the first time as the putative majority leader.
  Within 45 minutes of sitting there and watching the beginning of 
counting the ballots, a police officer in a big flak jacket and a large 
rifle grabbed me firmly by the collar like this--I will never forget 
that grip--and said to me: ``Senator, we've got to get out of here. 
You're in danger.''
  We walked out the Senate Chamber door, made a right turn, went 
through another door. This happened to be captured on the videotape 
above, and it was shown at the impeachment trial, although I didn't 
even know they had the tape until I saw it at the impeachment trial. 
But we go through the door. You don't see us for 20 seconds. And then 
we are running out of the door at full speed.
  I was within 30 feet of these nasty, racist, bigoted 
insurrectionists. Had someone had a gun, had two of them blocked off 
the door, who knows what would have happened. I was told later that one 
of them reportedly said: ``There's the big Jew. Let's get him.''
  Bigotry against one is bigotry against all. And I saw something that 
I had been told later never happened before--the Confederate flag 
flying in this dear Capitol. That is just one of many searing, 
grotesque images of that unimaginable, most un-American day.
  There were good moments too. I remember when the leaders--Senator 
McConnell, myself, Speaker Pelosi, Leader McCarthy--were sent off to 
the secret place. We convened after desperately trying to get the 
President on the phone to ask him to call the rioters off. We spoke to 
the Secretary of Defense and the Acting Attorney General, but to no 
avail. But then the four of us got together and said: We are going to 
come back. We are going to count those votes. We are not going to let 
the violent insurrectionists stop us. And count the votes we did until, 
I believe it was 3 a.m. the next morning. That was the moment, amidst a 
lot of bad moments.

  So now we ask 1 year later, how shall our country move forward? What 
are we to say and think and do in response to a day when a sitting 
American President, rather than step down from office, unleashed his 
own supporters to attack the government through mob violence? How can 
we help those scarred by that day find solace, find healing? How can we 
make clear to the American people, to the world, and even to ourselves 
that our democracy is still whole?
  First, we must begin by commemorating our emergency responders who 
have died, whether through complications from injuries or, sadly, 
through suicide in the days and months after the violence: Brian 
Sicknick of New Jersey; Howie Liebengood of Virginia; Billy Evans of 
Massachusetts; Jeffrey Smith of Illinois; and Gunther Hashida of 
Virginia. Today and every day, we remember them; we mourn their loss; 
we honor their limitless heroism in the face of the unthinkable.
  Second, we also thank every single member of the Capitol Police, the 
DC Metro Police, and the National Guard, who kept us safe and prevented 
a violent riot from turning into something much worse. That afternoon, 
our Capitol Police were outnumbered, unprepared, and largely left on 
their own. Just watching on television the brutal beating of one of 
them by the mob, another being crushed between a door and a wall, just 
rips your heart apart. You relive that day, and you remember how the 
Capitol Police suffered but persisted and helped preserve our 
democracy. When they held the line, our democracy survived. So not only 
do we thank them but we commit to continue supporting them and fighting 
for them as they fought to defend this building.
  Finally, the only way we will truly move forward from January 6 is by 
speaking truth to power--we cannot avoid it--the truth about what 
happened that day, about what led to the violence, and about what it 
means for our democracy moving forward.
  I say this because too many--often depending on their allegiances--
seem desperate to sweep the memory of January 6 under the rug. Too many 
are working to rewrite the history of what happened, to downplay or 
excuse or even defend the mob, to excuse an insurrection of this very 
Capitol. Too many are hoping the American people will just look away 
and forget that day ever took place. After all, they say, Donald Trump 
is no longer President, right? That can't happen. We can't let that 
happen. We have an obligation not to let that happen because history 
shows us that when you ignore or paint over this kind of violent 
action, it will recur, often in worse form than it had originally. That 
is what history shows.
  We didn't look away after the attack on Pearl Harbor. We didn't look 
away after the attacks on 9/11. They may have been from foreign powers, 
but we still--just because it was Americans who did this, we cannot 
look away after the attack of January 6. What we must do instead is 
stare the truth, however ugly, in the face: The attack of January 6 
didn't come out of the blue. It was not an act of God. It was not 
something that came from foreign soil. It wasn't even just some mere 
protest that got out of hand. No, no, no, no, no. January 6 was an 
attempt to reverse, through violent means, the outcome of a free and 
fair election, an insurrection--call it what it is, what it was. It was 
fundamentally rooted in Donald Trump's Big Lie that the election of 
2020 was illegitimate, in deep offense to the peaceful transfer of 
power--indeed, in deep offense to the very notion of truth itself.
  Anyone who thinks that the origins of this insurrection are going 
away should just have listened a few moments ago when Donald Trump did 
it again--lying and lying and lying about the election, a clear 
reminder of the threat that he and his lie remain to our Nation.
  Alarmingly--alarmingly--many of his supporters quickly embraced the 
lie in the aftermath of the 2020 election. Many of them truly believed 
and still believe that he won the election and the game was rigged--not 
a small number, large numbers of Americans; if you look at polls, tens 
of millions.
  It didn't matter there was no proof to any of these claims. Donald 
Trump kept saying it and saying it and saying it again. And he called 
his supporters to rally here in Washington in a last-ditch effort to 
stay in power. We all know this. That is what happened. We can't forget 
it.
  It was Donald Trump's Big Lie that soaked our political landscape in 
kerosene. It was Donald Trump's rally on The Mall that struck the 
match. Then came the fire. And pouring gasoline on that fire are many 
in one branch of our media who spread the Big Lie then and continue to 
spread the Big Lie even though they know it is false, and millions 
listen to these people and believe it.
  Here, too, is another terrible truth: The disease of the Big Lie 
continues to this day. The attacks on our democracy are ongoing, if not 
by the force of baseball bats and pipe bombs, then certainly through a 
quieter and much more organized effort to subvert democracy from the 
bottom up.

  Just as the Big Lie inspired the attack of January 6, the Big Lie 
continues like a disease across State legislatures throughout the 
country, where we are seeing the most restrictive voter suppression 
efforts since Jim Crow--since Jim Crow--in 21st-century America, 
turning the clock way back.
  Let's be abundantly clear. These new anti-voter laws are on the books 
today only because their authors cited the Big Lie, cited the 
fictitious bugaboo of voter fraud and are trying to succeed where the 
insurrection failed.
  Unless we confront the Big Lie, unless we all do our part to fortify 
and strengthen our democracy, the political violence of January 6 risks 
becoming not an aberration but, God forbid, the norm. And we have seen 
it, too, with the threats against election workers, teachers, school 
administrators, healthcare workers. We cannot put our heads in the 
sand. We cannot brush this over.
  What does that mean for the Senate? I think we have to talk about the 
realities here today too. It means we must

[[Page S57]]

pass legislation, effective legislation, to defend our democracy, to 
protect the right to vote. We must pass the John Lewis Voting Rights 
Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act so that our country's 
destiny is determined by the voice of the people and not by the violent 
whims of lies and even mob rule. We must also guard against the false 
hopes of solutions that don't deal with the problem, that try to cover 
it up or push it away because people don't want to deal with it.
  Some say the answer lies in doing the bare minimum, like reforming 
the Electoral Count Act that my friend the Republican leader has 
floated in recent days. Let me take this opportunity to make clear that 
that plan, the McConnell plan--that is what it is--is unacceptably 
insufficient and even offensive. Scorekeeping matters little if the 
game is rigged.
  As we know too well, State legislatures are working day and night to 
undermine our democratic process from the get-go by empowering 
partisans to potentially say which ballots count and which do not. What 
good is it to accurately count a result that is compromised from the 
start?
  Senator McConnell's plan to reform the Electoral Count Act would do 
nothing more than codify the Vice President's ceremonial role in the 
counting of the electoral college votes, effectively guaranteeing that 
partisan State legislatures could overturn the elections without fear 
of recourse. Look at what it does. Look at what it does. It is a 
cynical idea. It is an idea to divert attention from the real issue 
because they don't want to confront the real issue.
  This cannot be. This should not be about one party versus another. 
Voting rights have always been bipartisan--supported by Bush, H.W., and 
W., supported by Reagan--passing this Chamber with large votes from 
both sides of the aisle. That is what always used to happen until the 
Republican Party was taken over by Donald Trump.
  So it is not about one party versus another. It can't be. It is about 
one terrible lie against democracy itself, the kind of lie that, if let 
stand both verbally and in action, erodes our democracy--erodes our 
democracy.
  If a majority of people--there is already a substantial minority who 
don't believe our elections are legitimate, aided and egged on by 
Donald Trump and rightwing media. What if a majority of this country, 
because of these pernicious actions, starts believing it? A majority of 
Americans don't believe that elections are on the level? Just ask 
yourself what will happen. I can't predict the details, but I can 
predict that it will diminish the greatness of this country in small 
and even large ways.
  So we cannot--this should not be a partisan issue. It is about 
falsehood versus truth. In the history of this country, we have always 
disagreed on ideology but never on facts until recently and in such an 
important area.
  If lying about results of an election is acceptable, if instigating a 
mob against the government is considered permissible, if encouraging 
political violence becomes the norm, it will be open season on this 
grand democracy, this noble experiment, and everything will be up for 
grabs by whoever has the biggest clubs, the sharpest spears, the most 
effective lies.
  I do not believe that is the ultimate destiny of our country. The mob 
may be strong, but the counter is stronger--the roots of democracy, the 
feelings of the American people. And the affection and love for this 
grand, noble experiment in democracy are stronger as long as we speak 
out, as long as we act.
  The wellspring of democracy is deep, and even in the most difficult 
of times, Americans have rallied and risen to the occasion. Since the 
early days of our Republic, Americans launched mighty movements, fought 
a bloody civil war, and, yes, passed Federal election laws and voting 
rights laws to expand the promise of democracy until there were no more 
boundaries.
  We are called on, importuned by the millions who have lost their 
lives, to defend this democracy, to defend it once again. I call on all 
Americans--Democrats, Republicans, Independents--to rise to the 
occasion and ensure that the mob, the violence, the lies do not win the 
day. Let the anniversary of January 6 forever serve as a reminder that 
the march to perfect our democracy is never over; that our democracy is 
a precious, sometimes fragile gift, purchased by those who struggled 
before us and that all of us now must do our part to keep the American 
vision going in the present and into the future.
  Somehow, in ways I can't predict but I know are true, I am certain 
that God's mysterious hand will guide us, and truth and right will 
prevail.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Booker). The Senator from Minnesota.
  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Thank you, Senator Schumer, for your leadership and 
your work and your words today.
  As I stand here, I look at the faces of the staff. I remember the 
moment when we were pushed out of this Chamber for security reasons. I 
remember the words of one staff member, Leigh, who yelled out: Take the 
boxes. Take the boxes. She was talking about the mahogany boxes that 
were filled with the electoral ballots because we knew they would be 
destroyed if they were left behind.
  I remember my own staff--one of them is here today--hearing their 
stories of being in a closet, hiding in a closet with only forks that 
happened to be next door to protect themselves, right next to the doors 
where the insurrectionists had invaded.
  I remember the staff throughout this building who were marooned in 
places and the faces of the police officers, the cuts on their faces, 
the anguish, and the words of Officer Dunn, who said, at the end of the 
day, that he had been called the N-word multiple times and that he had 
looked to his friends, as they collapsed in the Rotunda, and said: ``Is 
this America?''
  ``Is this America?''
  The haunting words of the police officer on the police radio that was 
heard broadcast in the middle of the whole thing: ``Is there a plan?''
  ``Is there a plan?''
  There were many breakdowns that day, but the biggest breakdown was 
the breakdown of our democracy; that some people actually felt that 
they could take the law into their own hands; that they could invade 
not just a building but our very Republic.
  I look back at the words and the speeches that people gave that day, 
not only after the insurrection, but what was telling was what they 
said before it started. I think I would urge people to look at those 
speeches. That discussion that we were having about this had been 
raging for weeks and for months.
  I remember standing at this very place right before we closed down 
the Senate because of the insurrection and going through the facts--
going through the facts about how President-Elect Biden at the time had 
won more votes than any President in history; the facts that 10 living 
Defense Secretaries had actually stood up at the time, including both 
of Donald Trump's Defense Secretaries, including people like Dick 
Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld and William Cohen, and came together and 
said that the scurrilous attacks on our democracy must stop, and we 
must allow for the peaceful transition of power.
  Then I looked at the very end of my remarks, and I ended with this 
right before we were invaded. I said this:

       My friend Roy Blunt--

  Whom I still have immense respect for what he did that evening.

       My friend Roy Blunt, my fellow Rules Committee leader, many 
     years ago, found a statue, a bust of a man at the top of a 
     bookcase. He did research. He went to the historians. 
     [And][a]ll he could find out was that no one knew who this 
     guy was except that he was a cleric. Hence, the statue is 
     called ``The Unknown Cleric.''
       Now, at the time, our leaders [in this great place] thought 
     this man important enough that they would warrant a statue 
     for him, but today no one knows who he is. Senator Blunt's 
     message to schoolkids and Senators alike that visit his 
     office, when he shows them the statue: What we do here is 
     more important than who we are.

  And I ended with this:

       Senators, what matters is not our futures, not our short-
     term destinies.
       What matters is our democracy's destiny because I think 
     many of us know [that] people will not know who we are 100 
     years from now or 200 years from now, but what they will know 
     is this: They will know what we did today, how we voted 
     today. [And] that is more important than who we are. [As 
     someone once said,] [i]t is a Republic, if we can keep it.

  ``It is a Republic, if we can keep it.'' Those words ring more true 
now than

[[Page S58]]

they did a year ago because, as we know, the haunting shrieks of the 
police that day, the officer pinned between the doors at the hands of 
rioters--there were people who stood up for our Republic, and there 
were people who attacked our Republic.

  I remember Captain Carneysha Mendoza, a 19-year veteran of the 
Capitol Police, who testified before the Rules Committee, who suffered 
chemical burns to her face while commanding the officers in the Rotunda 
while they struggled to hold the doors open.
  Who can forget Officer Eugene Goodman, who after saving Senator 
Romney from walking directly into the mob, ran by himself to take on a 
group of rioters with his baton and then diverted that mob away from 
the Senate Chamber, allowing us to safely depart?
  Mr. President, who can forget the image right there where you sit on 
that dais of the insurrectionists rifling through papers on people's 
desks, opening up their offices and desks?
  Tragically, five officers who reported for duty have since passed 
away--five officers. You wonder why you see sad faces today on many 
people in this building who were their friends. Capitol Police Officer 
Brian Sicknick died the day after the attack. Four other officers died 
in the days and months that followed--Capitol Police Officer Howard 
Liebengood, DC Metropolitan Police Officers Jeffrey Smith, Gunther 
Hashida, and Kyle DeFreytag.
  Many more suffered physical injuries and even more sustained 
emotional trauma from the events of that day. We also remember, of 
course, Officer Billy Evans, who tragically died doing his job at his 
post in April.
  Recognizing the sacrifice of those heroes to defend our democracy is 
the least we can do. Senator Blunt and I led legislation, with the 
support our leaders, honoring those who protected the Capitol on 
January 6 with the Congressional Gold Medal. It was an honor to stand 
with officers and their families in August as President Biden signed 
this bill into law.
  We have made many, many improvements to the security of the Capitol. 
I think it is very important for staff and officers alike and those who 
work there to know that.
  I want to thank Senator Schumer for his work in installing a new 
Sergeant at Arms, Karen Gibson, for the Senate. We have General Walker 
over in the House, and we have a new Police Chief, Chief Manger, who 
did an excellent job yesterday in describing the changes. We know there 
are many challenges ahead.
  Last, but not least, is that we do not have enough police officers 
right now to fill vacancies so people are working double shifts; they 
are working vacations; they are canceling vacations. We have over 400 
openings, an experience that many police departments throughout the 
country have right now, but one that is very important, and the Chief 
has committed to fill those vacancies.
  But what have we done, the progress? Well, we have, one, gotten new 
personnel in. Two, we have passed a law in this Chamber and signed into 
law by President Biden that makes it easier for the Chief to call in 
the National Guard in the case of emergency. We have made sure that 
there are operational plans in place as there were this summer when 
major events occur.
  One of the saddest memories of that day was the fact that 75 percent 
of the police officers asked to defend this Capitol were in plain 
clothes--75 percent. In many cases, they had less protective gear on 
than the invaders of the Capitol. That has changed--no more equipment 
that is going to be locked on a bus that they can't access. With 
Senator Leahy's leadership with Appropriations and Senator Shelby's 
leadership, we have been able to obtain more funding to get them the 
equipment that they need. All of those things are important.
  But as Senator Schumer noted, the other piece of this is our 
democracy itself. And that means getting to the bottom of what 
happened. Something is happening right now with the House Select 
Committee that is working to get the facts. We would have loved to have 
an independent Commission like the 9/11 Commission to do that, but they 
are doing that work over in the House.
  Yesterday, we heard from Attorney General Garland, who pledged to 
look at this at every level and to go where the facts will lead. Those 
were his words. Accountability at every level for what happened here is 
key, and it is the largest investigation we have seen in the history of 
America. Over 700 people have been charged. That is a big piece of this 
work as well--accountability.
  As Senator Schumer noted, this is also about carrying on the torch of 
our democracy. The voting rights legislation that we are working on 
right now couldn't be more important because what was not accomplished 
with bear spray and bayonets has now been passed on to others to pass 
bills as we have seen in Wisconsin, where a bill actually passed that 
would have allowed for only one ballot dropoff box in the entire city 
of Milwaukee. That one was vetoed by Governor Evers. But others have 
passed in States like Georgia, in States like Texas. And across this 
country is a concerted effort to undermine our democracy.
  So it is on us, when we take an oath to defend the Constitution of 
the United States, no matter what party we are in, to hold our 
democracy dear. It is a precious, precious thing and it is very fragile 
and it is in our hands to protect, just as our police officers 
protected it on January 6.
  When you have 9,600 threats against Members of Congress--double what 
it has ever been in the past--that is not a small thing; that is 
January 6 continued. When you have election officials who have to leave 
their posts because, in the words of the election official from the 
city of Philadelphia, his own family was threatened, their names, their 
addresses, their house put out on the internet; Katie Hobbs, secretary 
of state in Arizona, receiving a voice mail saying: ``I am a hunter--
and I think you should be hunted;'' people in rural areas who are 
elected officials who cannot have the kind of security that people may 
have in this building--that is January 6 continued.
  And we cannot forget our duty going forward. I will end with that 
image that I will always cherish and the hope that democracy will 
prevail. At 3:30 in the morning, when Senator Blunt and I and Vice 
President Pence took that long walk over to the House with the two 
young women with the mahogany box filled with the last of the electoral 
ballots up through Wyoming--there was broken glass on all sides; there 
was spray paint on statues. It was the same walk we had taken in the 
morning, which had been so joyful, the celebration of our democracy, so 
ceremonial--and there we were, the last ones left taking that walk into 
the House Chambers where we finished our job. So when I look back at 
that day, that is the lasting image; that in the end, democracy 
prevailed.
  Two weeks later, there we were under that beautiful blue sky with 
leaders of both parties on that inaugural stage saying that, yes, our 
democracy stood tall. It brushed itself off, and we moved forward as 
one Nation under God, with liberty and justice for all, as we always 
do. And that is the spirit with which we must go forward in the coming 
weeks as we debate the importance--the importance--of keeping that 
democracy strong with election laws; that we continue to improve the 
security in this Capitol; and that we hold the people who did this not 
just to us, not just to this building but to our very Republic--
accountable for what they did.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The senior Senator from Vermont.
  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, these are among the most somber and 
sorrowful remarks that I have had to make as President pro tempore and 
also my several decades of service in this body.
  What an unthinkable event it is that we are marking today--an 
attempted coup incited not against a President but by a President, who 
promoted and still promotes a litany of lies to overturn the results of 
the election in order for him to hold on to power that he no longer 
possesses. We are in the business of words, but there are none to 
adequately capture the damage that he and his henchmen have done and 
are doing to our country.
  I am certain that no one serving here ever thought such an attack on 
our democracy by a violent insurrectionist mob who stormed the 
Capitol--the very citadel of our democracy--could ever happen in our 
beloved country, the world's most enduring democracy.

[[Page S59]]

  This very Chamber where we are gathered today was breached. It was 
desecrated as was the rest of the Capitol.
  This morning, in my capacity as President pro tempore, I called the 
Senate into session. As I looked around the Chamber, so many memories 
came to mind. I first saw this Senate Chamber as a teenager, visiting 
from our home in Montpelier, VT, with my parents and my sister, coming 
to this Capitol.
  And then later as a Georgetown law student, I would sit in the 
Visitors' Gallery and just watch. I saw the Members of the Senate in 
both parties speaking to the conscience of our Nation--the conscience 
of our Nation--and trying to protect our Constitution.
  In 1975, I came onto the floor of the Senate as the junior-most 
Member of this body. I was in awe of the Senate then. I never expected 
to become the dean of the Senate.
  But a year ago, I sat on the floor of the Senate as Vice President 
Pence was announcing the certification of ballots. I saw him doing this 
in a straightforward and honest way, even though he knew that, at the 
end of the count, he would soon no longer be Vice President nor would 
Donald Trump be President.
  We were all in the Senate paying attention when suddenly officers 
came rushing onto the floor, and they took the Vice President off the 
dais and out the door. Chuck Grassley, the then-President pro tem, went 
to the dais and prepared to recess the Senate.
  As for most of us, I remember looking around here. We were wondering 
what was happening, until I saw 2 feet from me a man wearing a vest 
that said ``police'' on the Senate floor. He was carrying a submachine 
gun. I had never seen anything like this in the U.S. Senate. And you 
recall the police rushed us to the back door to the basement of the 
Capitol, and they shuttled us off to a secure location. I was still 
trying to sort through my mind what was happening.
  Officers were going through the halls. And one officer came along, 
took my arm, and said: ``We're going to watch out for you, Shamrock.''
  So many memories flooded back because Shamrock was the police code 
name for me when I was a recipient of a deadly anthrax letter addressed 
to me that killed and maimed others. Ahead of me I could see the brave 
Parliamentarians, and others had grabbed the cases with the 
certification of ballots. They also grabbed an ivory gavel that is 
right in front of you now, the same gavel I used today to call the 
Senate into session.
  And when we were in the secure room and were starting to see the 
television, we saw a mob, Americans who turned into a mob and turned 
their back on our Nation's constitutional history. They were rejecting 
everything that made America great. They were ignoring our laws, our 
customs, and, most of all, they were ignoring our history.
  The destruction and rampage was something you would see in a movie. I 
never expected to see it in the Capitol, a building that has always 
been a symbol of our democracy.
  A suggestion was made when we were in the secure room that we use our 
authority under the law to vote and make the secure room the Senate 
Chamber. I said: No, we should not be hiding here. As soon as we are 
safe to go back to the Senate, whenever it is, we should go back there, 
all of us, and have the American people see us there.
  I said: It may take an hour, it may take 10 hours, but we should be 
there carrying out the Constitution and saying no criminals can destroy 
our history, our Constitution, our America.
  And I was relieved when virtually all of the Republicans and 
Democrats who were in that room stood and said loudly that they agreed 
with me and that we would wait until we went back.
  I was standing next to the Parliamentarian and the leather boxes 
carrying the certification of election. We both looked at them, and I 
am sure we were both thinking the same thing: We will protect our 
Constitution. We will protect the Senate. We will protect America.
  To the credit of the Members of the Senate and the House, we 
reconvened after the siege. We fulfilled our constitutional duties to 
certify the confirmed results of the election--results that every State 
and Federal court has upheld in the face of blatantly frivolous 
challenges.
  So my thoughts today are not only about how fragile our democracy is 
but about the heroes of the day: the Capitol Police officers, some of 
whom lost their lives or suffered grievous and enduring injuries; and 
those who joined in the Capitol's defense, especially from the 
Metropolitan Police Department.
  That day, 1 year ago, was such a sad and wrenching day. So disturbing 
was it to see such hatred--hatred and anger--to see the Confederate 
battle flag paraded in the Capitol, where it never was brought, even 
during the Civil War, and to see Nazi emblems and other symbols of hate 
and violence carried by some of those in the mob.
  It was so horrifying to see our brave police officers, many of them 
war veterans who defended America in Iraq and Afghanistan, not just 
disregarded and disrespected but brutally attacked, even by the 
wielding of poles bearing the American flag used as bludgeons and 
spears.
  In the aftermath, the National Guard from several of our States were 
called in to protect the Capitol. I visited with members of the Vermont 
National Guard. I know that many other Senators did that with their 
States' Guard troops.

  In the moment, that night, and the next day, Senators on both sides 
of the aisle called this out for the travesty that it was, but amnesia 
has set in since then in some quarters. There has been a concerted 
effort to downplay or grossly mischaracterize the terrible events of 
that day by some Members in both Chambers of Congress. It was not, as 
has been said, ``just another day in January''--what an insult to those 
who lost their lives and to those who suffered injuries from which they 
still struggle to recover.
  The question begs and answers itself: What are we in the Senate here 
for, if not to defend the Republic and our Constitution?
  There is a clear need for justice, and the courts are doing their 
essential work. There is a clear need to know the truth, and even some 
of the former President's closest supporters are heeding their duty to 
respond to the bipartisan congressional investigation into what 
happened that day.
  There will be a clear need to learn the lessons, to safeguard and 
strengthen our democracy, to protect those who serve and protect the 
Capitol and those who work here.
  The courts are dealing with these crimes, but it is detestable how so 
many were so callously used as cannon fodder. Their actions were wrong, 
but many believed they were acting as patriots. The former President 
told them so and egged them on, and they believed him.
  Meanwhile, he and so many of his cronies, unlike many of his 
followers who stormed the Capitol, have paid no price for their roles. 
They must be held accountable for planning and promoting this travesty 
and, in his case, doing nothing to stop the assault, even when appealed 
to, repeatedly, by his closest advisers.
  The New York Times has observed our Nation faces an existential 
threat from a movement that is openly contemptuous of democracy and has 
shown a willingness to use violence to achieve its end. No self-
governing society can survive such a threat by denying it exists. To 
deny it is to be complicit in what happened.
  But, more than anything else, today is a day to remember, to feel 
sorrow that our great Nation ever suffered such violence and division, 
to mourn those who died and were injured and to mark the day as history 
will: the first time in 244 years that our exceptional country was 
almost prevented from carrying out a peaceful transfer of power, a 
sacred principle, a tradition in which we have taken pride for 
generations and which we have taken for granted throughout our entire 
lives and that we have held up as an example to people everywhere.
  Now, our job in Congress is different than the prosecutors' roles. 
Democracy needs a foundation, and that foundation is nothing less than 
the truth. It has been said that trust in the rule of law is built in 
drops and lost in buckets.
  Our job is fundamental: Defend and advance the truth. Protect the 
rule of law itself. And as dean of this body, that is what I will do 
until the day I walk off this floor.

[[Page S60]]

  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority whip and Senator from Illinois.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, a year ago today, we witnessed one of the 
worst assaults on our democracy in living memory. For those of us who 
were in the Chamber--that includes virtually every Senator--there are 
images which are emblazoned in our memory. Mine, like others, was of a 
Vice President sitting, where you are sitting, who shortly after 2 p.m. 
in the afternoon was pulled off of the dais by two of his security 
detail and hurried out that door. It is an unusual thing to happen 
under any circumstances, but while we were counting the electoral 
college returns, it was amazing and unprecedented.
  Then they came up and the Capitol Police instructed us: Stay at your 
desk. This is going to be a secure room. We are going to start bringing 
in all the staff, and they will be lining the walls here. We will keep 
you safe.
  Well, we all sat there in anticipation of the next thing to happen 
and, not 10 minutes later, another Capitol policeman came up and said: 
That last directive is off. Evacuate this body, this room, as quickly 
and orderly as possible.
  And we all started piling out the doors. As we left and went down the 
exit stairways just outside the doors of this Chamber, I looked out the 
window and saw a sea of Trump signs converging on the Capitol. It was 
an image I won't forget.
  We went to what we considered to be a safe location and witnessed 
over television what most of America was watching.
  How serious was it? Well, one misguided soul, a Republican 
Congressman from Georgia, said it was just a group of tourists--
tourists--in the Capitol.
  Yesterday, the Attorney General of the United States, Merrick 
Garland, had a press conference and remarked on the first anniversary 
of January 6. And among the things he said was this: All of the 
investigations--the criminal investigations of what happened that day--
have disclosed some horrible things: evidence of perpetrators punching 
dozens of law enforcement officers, knocking them unconscious. Some 
perpetrators tackled and dragged law enforcement officers. Among the 
many examples of such violence, one officer was crushed in a door, 
another was dragged down a set of stairs facedown, repeatedly tased and 
beaten, and suffered a heart attack.
  Some perpetrators attacked law enforcement officers with chemical 
agents, burning their eyes and skins. We saw it--didn't we?--spraying 
the bear spray in the faces of these officers.
  Some assaulted officers with pipes and poles and other dangerous and 
deadly weapons. Perpetrators targeted, assaulted, tackled, and harassed 
journalists, destroying their equipment, and that launched the most 
comprehensive and perhaps largest criminal prosecution in the history 
of this Nation.
  According to the Attorney General, 725 individuals have been charged 
with a Federal crime, and 145 pled guilty already to Federal 
misdemeanors. Over 325 have been charged with felonies, many for 
assaulting officers and many for corruptly obstructing or attempting to 
obstruct an official proceeding. Twenty defendants charged with 
felonies have already pled guilty, and the investigation continues.
  They talked about the assistance they received: over 300,000 tips 
from ordinary citizens to help our government bring to justice those 
responsible for January 6. I say that because I listened in disbelief 
to the polling data which suggests that it really wasn't an attack on 
the Capitol; it was only a visit of tourists who were in an orderly 
fashion visiting this building. The videos don't lie. The facts are the 
facts.
  Individuals are paying a criminal price, and their lives will be 
changed because of their bad decisions to leave the Trump rally and 
follow his instructions to come up to this building. That is the 
reality of what happened that day.
  But the grimmest reality was the death of five of our law enforcement 
officials, who have been named and should be named every time we stand 
on this floor--Officer Brian Sicknick, Officer Howard Liebengood, 
Officer Jeffrey Smith, Officer Gunther Hashida, and Officer Kyle 
DeFreytag--and 140 other law enforcement officials who were assaulted, 
many of them seriously, and are still paying the price for that day in 
their lives when they stood in defense of us, in defense of this 
building.
  That is the reality, and if nothing more comes of this speech, 
commemoration today, I hope that all of us, regardless of our political 
persuasion--the most conservative Republican to the most progressive 
Democrat, Independents in between; Black, White, and Brown; men and 
women; rural, urban across America, will finally come to agreement on 
one thing: Violence has no place in a democracy.
  Those who resort to violence, wherever they fit on the political 
spectrum, do not fit on that spectrum, do not belong in this country. 
And what we saw a year ago today was violence unbridled, violence 
provoked by a former President of the United States, and many innocent 
people paid a price.
  I listened as the President and Vice President spoke this morning in 
Statuary Hall. It was a somber and meaningful occasion, as they talked 
about what was at stake on January 6 and the challenge we face today. 
And I thought for a moment what a difference it would have made, in 
fact, as the President spoke, if Republican and Democratic leaders 
stood by his side, but that was not to be the case.
  You see, when the proposal was made for a bipartisan commission of 
Democrats and Republicans--commissions we have seen in the past, from 
9/11 and other events that marked our history--that was stopped by 
Senator McConnell, the Republican leader of the Senate, by the threat 
of a filibuster.
  He wouldn't agree to a bipartisan commission to look into the origins 
of January 6 and what we need to do to avoid them in the future. So I 
want to salute Speaker Pelosi for organizing a bipartisan committee in 
the U.S. House of Representatives, who is investigating this matter.
  I want to salute my fellow Congressman from Illinois, Adam Kinzinger, 
who has had the courage to step forward and be part of it, as well as 
Congresswoman Liz Cheney of Wyoming and the Democrats who are part of 
that effort. They are serving this Nation as they should: bringing 
forth the facts, fighting the resistance from those who don't want to 
tell the truth.
  But there is more that we must do. It has been mentioned several 
times and bears repeating: What is happening across America since 
January 6 is equally alarming to this assault on the Capitol, and that 
is the effort by dozens of States across the Nation to restrict 
Americans' right to vote.
  To think of it, in that last election in 2020, we had the largest 
turnout in the history of the United States to cast votes in the 
Presidential election, and the response by so many of these States 
controlled by Republican legislatures is to try to do their best to 
make sure that never happens again; to restrict the opportunity to vote 
for eligible Americans, when we should be doing just the opposite.
  I have won elections, and I have lost elections. As long as they were 
fair elections, I accepted the results, and they all were. I was lucky. 
Sometimes, I won; sometimes, I lost. But I felt at the end of the day 
that they were fair elections. We should feel the same way about the 
election that occurred the year before last, in 2020, with the election 
of Joe Biden as President of the United States.
  It was a fair election. It has been certified. I marvel at my 
colleagues on the Republican side who come to the floor and say we have 
no right to tell these States what their laws should be when it comes 
to elections.
  This little booklet is in each of our desks. I would commend to my 
colleagues, particularly on the Republican side, to consider opening it 
and consider reading article I, section 4. I would like to read into 
the Record: ``The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for 
Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the 
Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make or 
alter such Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators.''
  And you go further in and read the Bill of Rights and the amendments 
to the Constitution. And then Amendment 15 says:

       The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall 
     not be denied or abridged by the

[[Page S61]]

     United States or by any State on account of race, color, or 
     previous condition of servitude.

  Section 2 of the amendment says:

       The Congress shall have the power to enforce this article 
     by appropriate legislation.

  And yet Republican after Republican comes to the floor and questions 
how we can have the audacity to suggest that we are establishing 
standards so eligible voters across this country have an opportunity to 
vote.
  It is our constitutional responsibility to do it, and simply making 
that eligibility turn into an actual exercise of that right is 
consistent with our democracy.
  I know other colleagues are here to speak today. I will close by 
saying this: What brought that mob to this Capitol was the inspiration 
of a former President, who provoked them, incited them, and turned them 
loose on this building, and now, we are led to believe that he sat back 
and watched on television, as the events unfolded, doing nothing--not 
picking up the phone, not calling on anyone to stop the violence, to 
stop the bloodshed, to stop the death that took place in this Capitol. 
He did nothing for hours until, finally, enough forces came in to 
reclaim this building.
  When I saw the images, the photographs, and the videos of people who 
were clowning in this Chamber, posing for photographs, going through my 
desk and other desks, and others taking photographs with their phones, 
sitting in that chair to pose for pictures to send back home, it makes 
me sick to my stomach. This is a sacred place. It is not sacred because 
I serve here or anyone else does. It is sacred because it was built to 
be a symbol of this great Nation.
  It was during the administration of a man from Illinois named 
Lincoln, who completed the Capitol dome in the midst of a Civil War so 
that this building would always be a symbol of the unity of our Nation 
and the promise of our Nation.
  That symbol was desecrated on January 6. And now, the question 
arises: Will we summon the courage to come together and lead to extend 
the opportunity to vote to more and more Americans, to make this 
democracy more complete and more just? Or will we step back and accept 
the verdict of history that we are going to go back in time instead of 
forward as a Nation?
  I trust we will move forward. These American people are great people. 
Regardless of their political persuasion, they have one abiding 
knowledge, and that is the fact that we are blessed to live in this 
country, and we each bear a responsibility to its future.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Michigan.
  Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I rise today, along with colleagues, to 
look back at a year ago, January 6, 2021--I wish this was actually a 
bipartisan coming together today--a horrible, tragic day in our 
Nation's history.
  But it is not enough to look back. We also need to look at what is 
happening today because the threats against our democracy didn't go 
away when those black metal fences came down. Some of these threats 
against the democracy have found fertile soil right in this very 
Chamber.
  January 6, 2021, will go down in history as one of the worst days our 
Nation has ever faced. It was disturbing. It was frightening. It was 
enraging. I know that I will never, ever forget it. Many people who 
were working here that day still carry scars. Some can be seen, and 
some can only be felt.
  The Capitol Police, the DC Police, the National Guard members, our 
other first responders, Capitol staff who were there that day are 
really heroes, and they deserve our thanks and our continued support.
  What we all witnessed that day was nothing less than a violent 
insurrection against the very seat of our democracy and our American 
form of government. It was sparked by a big lie, concocted by a 
political loser, and fueled by a network of his supporters.
  So let me take a moment to remind everyone that Donald Trump lost the 
2020 election fair and square. In my home State of Michigan, in the 
middle of a pandemic, more people voted than ever before, 5\1/2\ 
million people. And Michigan voters clearly and resoundingly chose Joe 
Biden to be our President and Kamala Harris to be our Vice President.
  But instead of accepting defeat gracefully, like every other 
President in our history, Democrat or Republican, Donald Trump claimed 
that the election had been stolen from him. No one likes to lose an 
election. I have done both, winning and losing. It is not fun. But the 
election was not stolen from him.
  But this Big Lie has fueled the entire movement, people who will stop 
at nothing, including deadly violence, to undermine our Constitution 
and our country. They attacked our Capitol a year ago today, on January 
6. They will use and incite violence to disrupt future elections if 
they feel they need to.
  And now, they are organizing on the State level to challenge the 
rules and take away people's freedom to vote. And tragically, our 
colleagues across the aisle are standing by and allowing this 
continuing attack on our democracy. We should be standing together, 
Democrats and Republicans, saying no to this assault on our 
Constitution and our country.
  Republicans said the right things that day. The senior Senator from 
South Carolina said, soon after the riot, that he was humiliated and 
embarrassed for our country and that Trump should ``count him out.'' 
But a few short weeks later, Trump counted him in for 2 days of golf 
and dining at Mar-a-Lago.
  And then there is the Republican leader. He said that the January 6 
rioters were ``fed wild falsehoods by the most powerful man on earth 
because he was angry he lost an election.'' He added that Trump was 
``practically and morally responsible for provoking the events of the 
day.'' And he was right.
  Then the Republican leader and the majority of Republicans voted no 
on impeachment. They opposed a bipartisan commission to investigate the 
events of January 6. They blocked three bills to protect our freedom to 
vote, and they endorsed a Senate candidate who agrees with Trump that 
the 2020 election was stolen from him.
  In total, 147 Republican Members of the House and Senate--147--voted 
to overturn the results of the 2020 election. And a number of those 
eight Republican Senators still won't admit that Joe Biden is our duly-
elected President.
  Why am I focusing on this?
  Because our country has reached a critical crossroads: either we are 
going to come together as Americans, defend our democracy, and look 
back on January 6 as a painful low point in our Nation's history, or we 
can turn our power to a mob that is willing to do anything and say 
anything to dismantle our democracy and destroy--
  Mr. SCHUMER. Would my colleague yield for a minute?
  Ms. STABENOW. I would be happy to.
  Mr. SCHUMER. OK. We are about to approach noon, where we will have a 
moment of silence, not only in memory of those who were lost and those 
who were injured, but in all of the workforce here on Capitol Hill, who 
worked through that day under dire circumstances--they did an amazing 
job--and in recognition of the great job they do for us every day.
  So we thank not only the floor staff, but all of those who work here.
  And with that, I think we will commence the moment of silence, and 
after we finish, I will call on Senator Klobuchar and then Senator 
Stabenow, who will resume. OK?
  So if we might now at 12 noon--well, it is a little before. It is 2 
minutes before.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Minnesota.
  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I want to recognize the heroic efforts 
of our staff, many of whom are here with us today; of our law 
enforcement who, in the face of overwhelming numbers and an 
unprecedented violent assault, valiantly placed their lives on the line 
for this Republic.
  It is also an opportunity to remember to recommit ourselves to making 
sure nothing like this ever happens again. As President Biden said 
today, our democracy held. We, the people, endured; we, the people, 
prevailed.
  And we devote this moment of silence to those who stood up, not only 
for this building, not only for the people that worked here, but for 
our very democracy itself.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President I ask we commence a minute of silence, a

[[Page S62]]

moment of silence, for all of those who have helped us then and help us 
now, the staffs and everybody else.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will now 
observe a moment of silence in observance of the events of January 6, 
2021.
  (Moment of silence.)
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Michigan.
  Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, let me just conclude by saying that 
either we are going to come together as Americans, which I hope and 
pray we do, to defend our democracy and look back on January 6 as a 
painful low point in our Nation's history or we can turn over power to 
a mob that is willing to do anything and say anything to dismantle our 
democracy and destroy this grand experiment called America.
  The January 6 insurrection tried to overthrow our Capitol, and their 
sidekicks in suits and ties are trying to overthrow our elections. Just 
as we shored up our security here to protect the people's House, we 
need to upgrade our election laws to protect people's freedom to vote.
  Today is a day to remember, to be grateful for all of those who 
risked and lost their lives to protect us, to be grateful for all of 
those who stood up for democracy and continue to stand up every single 
day. Today is a day to be grateful that we live in this great democracy 
called America, and it is a day to reconnect ourselves to protect our 
freedoms for our children and our grandchildren.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Kaine). The Senator from Nevada.
  Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President, this morning, I have been listening 
to my colleagues, watching the news, watching our President, and 
reflecting on this day a year ago and where I was during this 
incredible insurrection that we now know happened on the Capitol.
  I was in my Capitol office here, as we all have an office here in the 
Capitol. I was getting ready to come to the floor of the Senate and 
certify that Joe Biden had won the Presidency in a free and fair 
election. The senior Senator from Minnesota had organized many of us to 
stand in defense of that free and fair election, and I had been asked 
to stand in defense of the certified electoral votes in Arizona. And 
what I had been told, they were going to challenge Nevada. It was a 
significant moment.
  Even before President Biden's victory, people had been spreading lies 
about the election for political gain, and I had planned to deliver a 
speech to combat those lies and explain in detail that the 2020 vote 
count was fair and accurate. So as I left my Capitol office and was 
walking to the Senate to deliver that speech, it became clear that 
something unprecedented was happening, because on my way out of my 
Capitol office, I came across two of my colleagues, one of them here 
today, Senator Smith, and Senator Murkowski. They were standing outside 
an open door to a restroom that we share amongst our Capitol offices, 
and I asked them what was going on.
  They said: There is a Capitol Police officer in there. He has got 
something in his eyes, and he is flushing his eyes out with water.
  I leaned in, and I saw the officer at the bathroom sink. I thought to 
myself and I said aloud to my colleagues: I think he has been pepper-
sprayed.
  I asked him: Have you been pepper sprayed?
  He said: Yes, but don't worry. Everything is fine. I am going to keep 
you all safe.
  With that, he dashed back out the door, up the stairs, and outside to 
protect all of us and everyone else in this building.
  Now, I knew there had been a rally going on near the White House and 
that there were protests. What I did not know that morning was just how 
close the protesters were to forcing their way into this Capitol.
  Now, everyone knows what happened next. As we sat here, all of the 
Senators, all of the staff who work with us day in and day out, our 
partners, the next thing we heard was this Chamber being shut down by 
the Capitol Police, claiming that the Capitol had been breached. They 
told us to stay in our seats.
  This is the safest place for you to be right now, and we will protect 
you.
  At that moment, we could all hear outside the doors. We didn't know 
what was going on, because we can't see beyond this room, what was 
happening outside, but we knew. We could hear the voices, and we could 
hear what was happening. We also could hear, outside of the one set of 
double doors that we call the hallway with the Ohio Clock that leads to 
the Rotunda, a lot of noise. It was at that moment, as the noise was 
working its way toward the Rotunda, that the Capitol Police officers 
then told all of us to get up and move quickly. We moved out these 
opposite doors right here, moved as quickly as we possibly could.
  That is when everybody came together, all of the Senators--I don't 
care if they were Republican or Democrat--our floor staff who was with 
us, grabbing those electoral votes, and we all started going up and 
down stairs, through hallways, up and down stairs, through hallways, 
until we could get to a secure location.
  As we were going through the hallways and when we got to the secure 
location, it was clear why this was happening. We were under attack 
because insurrectionists had been whipped into a frenzy by the false 
claim that the election in Nevada and in other States was fraudulent. 
That is exactly what the speakers said during that rally before the 
violence began.
  We saw the same false claims in Nevada, where extremists tried to 
challenge our election results in an effort to prevent Joe Biden from 
becoming President. The former President's campaign and his supporters 
filed a total of five lawsuits challenging the security of the election 
system and targeting our secretary of state in Nevada. Every one of 
those lawsuits was thrown out or failed, every single one of them in 
Nevada. When the official tally was completed, President Biden won 
Nevada by 33,596 votes.
  The Nevada secretary of state not only certified the election, she 
also investigated each and every claim of election fraud, and she made 
clear that her office found no evidence of widespread fraud.
  Now, I was the attorney general of the State of Nevada for 8 years, 
and I can tell you from personal experience, when we find voter fraud, 
we prosecute it. I also know there was, again, no widespread voter 
fraud in Nevada in the year 2020.
  Let me explain what ``widespread voter fraud'' means because that is 
now being challenged by some of the former President's supporters. 
``Widespread'' means that there was not enough to have changed the 
results of the election; that it was still a safe and secure election 
and Joe Biden is our President. In fact, not only Nevada's elections 
were safe, accessible, and secure, but across the country, they have 
been proven to be safe, accessible, and secure.
  I also want to share with the rest of the country that in my State, 
in Nevada, we have enacted important protections for protecting voting 
rights, including automatic voter registration, vote by mail, early 
voting, and same-day registration. In the 2020 Presidential election, 
almost half of Nevadans--people from both parties--took advantage of 
our vote-by-mail laws.
  But because the defeated former President and his supporters were 
upset that he lost the election, some of them publicized the lie that 
he had won, and that lie, in turn, spurred members of the public 
to violence that resulted in five deaths and countless injuries.

  Now, we all know, after the Capitol Police helped us move to safety, 
my colleagues and I from both parties talked about what to do. We knew 
the insurrectionists were trying to stop us from certifying the 
election, and we knew we had to finish our job, no matter how late it 
was. We all agreed that we had to go back to the Senate Chamber so that 
we could show the rest of the country that we would not let our 
democracy be subverted by violence; that we would honor our 
Constitution and the peaceful transfer of power in this country.
  I want to make this clear. I would have stood up to certify the valid 
results of the 2020 election no matter who won. This isn't about 
partisanship; it is about patriotism. I took an oath to uphold the 
Constitution and protect it against all enemies, foreign and domestic, 
and nothing and no one will prevent me from doing that sworn duty.
  So I walked back to the Senate floor on the evening of January 6 to 
finish

[[Page S63]]

my work. I will remember what I saw for the rest of my life. As I 
walked back, furniture had been thrown everywhere like matchsticks. 
Trash and broken glass littered the floor. It was like a war zone.
  That night, I stood up and spoke in defense of our democracy as I had 
planned to do hours before. And at 3:42 a.m., Vice President Pence 
announced that Joe Biden was the President-elect.
  We honored the Democratic transfer of power for the 59th time in 
American history, but I am here to tell you, there is so much to do to 
ensure that there will be a 60th time. Our democracy is more fragile 
than it has been in decades. The same bad actors who fueled the 
violence in the first place, including the defeated former President 
and his supporters, continue to spread the Big Lie that the election 
was stolen, and they are using these false claims to pass legislation 
threatening our very democracy.
  Around the country, more than 400 State laws were introduced to 
restrict voting last year alone. In Nevada, we expanded vote-by-mail 
drop box locations, but in Florida, Georgia, Iowa, and Indiana, new 
laws make it harder to use those drop boxes. Nevada has same-day voter 
registration, but Texas just made it harder to register, not easier. In 
Georgia, it is now even illegal to give food or water to people waiting 
in long lines to vote. The list goes on and on.
  These are partisan laws. They are designed to favor one group of 
voters over another. That is not democracy. A real democracy honors 
everyone's right to be heard. It makes sure that everyone gets a vote 
and that every vote is counted.
  Democracy is a remarkable thing--a system where the people get to 
choose their own leaders. We all need to stand up for it, just as the 
countless heroes of our history have done, from Elizabeth Cady Stanton 
to Abraham Lincoln, to Martin Luther King, Jr.
  I will not stop fighting to protect our country and our democracy. I 
will continue working with my colleagues to pass voting rights 
legislation. We need to follow Nevada's lead and protect access to the 
polls. We cannot let anyone silence America's voice in their own 
government.
  I also want to recognize many of the heroes who protected us that 
day, like the Capitol Police officer I encountered that morning. After 
the attack was over, I learned that 140 police officers I pass in the 
halls of Congress every day had broken bones or worse. Four of them 
later took their own lives. These are brave men and women who put 
themselves at risk every day to protect not just the people's elected 
representatives but our dedicated staff and the hardest working people 
here at the Capitol, from the janitors to the cafeteria workers, to the 
postal employees. All of these people carry their own memories of 
January 6, and we need to make sure they never have to go through 
something like that again.

  So many of them are still here at the Capitol, still doing their 
jobs, like the Capitol Police officer I saw earlier who had been 
pepper-sprayed. But I will tell you what: They give me hope, and they 
remind me that all of us have a job to do just like we did on January 
6. One year later, it is clear that we all must stand united in defense 
of our democracy. I hope we can do just that.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Rhode Island.
  Mr. REED. Mr. President, a year ago, thousands of supporters of then-
President Donald Trump--marching under banners supporting secession, 
conspiracy theories, and White supremacy--violently stormed the U.S. 
Capitol and breached the Senate and House Chambers in the hopes of 
overturning a free and fair election in which 7 million more Americans 
voted for President Biden. There was, of course, no proof and no truth 
to the claims of aberrant voting that Mr. Trump invented in order to 
fuel the mob.
  The assault on the Capitol was an attack on the United States and on 
democracy itself. We have the brave men and women of the U.S. Capitol 
Police to thank for defending the country against what can accurately 
be called an insurrection, and while the assault failed that day, 
thanks to the efforts of these officers and their partners from 
neighboring jurisdictions, an insidious campaign against our democracy 
continues through the baseless lies and antics of the former President 
and his associates.
  Mr. Trump set the events of January 6 in motion when he refused to 
say that he would accept the results of the November 2020 election, and 
he continued to value his ego over our democracy when he urged the mob 
to march to the Capitol and disrupt the election certification process. 
He repeatedly lied that the election he lost by 7 million votes had 
somehow been stolen, when the facts and the courts demonstrated that 
was clearly not the case.
  Stoked by his vitriol, Mr. Trump's supporters used pipes and 
flagpoles to brutally beat police officers. Some of the attacks were 
also directed at or were planned to be directed at our own Members in 
both the House and the Senate, and anyone who refused to subvert the 
election was a target of the insurrectionist mob. That included Mr. 
Trump's own Vice President, Vice President Mike Pence. Mr. Trump, who 
lit the fuse and stood by, his actions sent a demoralizing signal to 
billions around the world as they watched his supporters assault the 
Capitol.
  One year ago today, the U.S. Capitol Police, Federal, State, and 
local law enforcement partners, and the National Guard physically 
cleared the Capitol Building and grounds. The House of Representatives 
impeached Mr. Trump for his actions. Yet most of my Senate Republican 
colleagues made the tortured arguments that his actions were 
reprehensible but not technically impeachable. As a result, the 
democratically defeated former President continues his rhetorical 
assaults through lies and misinformation. He would rather rip our 
country apart and undermine our elections and democracy rather than to 
accept the will of the American voter.
  The bipartisan House Select Committee on the January 6 Attack on the 
U.S. Capitol is working tirelessly to get to the truth of that day. It 
is methodically collecting and following the evidence despite there 
being a lack of cooperation from Mr. Trump and his inner circle. The 
committee must continue to be transparent, and we must all continue to 
call out the repeated lies of Trump and his enablers.
  Every American, regardless of party affiliation, who believes in the 
right to vote and in upholding the Constitution, should want the truth 
about January 6 to come out. Congress must rise to the occasion. The 
stakes could not be any higher. Because of the former President's 
actions a year ago and his relentless lying since then, a significant 
minority of Americans now indicates that violence is an acceptable way 
to resolve political disagreement. We cannot afford to have such a 
sentiment persist. Together, we must accept the truth, restore trust in 
one another, and take steps to improve political discourse.
  One step we must take is to honor the officers of the Capitol Police, 
not just with our words but with real support. Last year, we passed a 
supplemental appropriations bill that provided over $107 million in 
additional funding, including roughly $35 million for overtime, 
retention bonuses, hazard pay, and student loan repayments for 
officers. It also provided critical funding to address the trauma 
experienced by our officers and helped support their mental health 
needs. But we can't stop there. We have to continue in this fiscal 
year, 2022, to support our police and to continue to support those who 
protect us.
  I am afraid, if we don't quickly resolve our differences, that we 
could fall into the state of a continuing resolution, which would 
actually deny our police--the Capitol Police--and our security forces 
the tools they will need not only to protect us and protect themselves 
but also to sustain their morale and their mental health. So I hope we 
can make progress, at least on that point, of reaching a budget 
agreement on behalf of the men and women who protect us and who 
literally, on that day, gave their lives for us.
  Now, in addition to that, we have a critical role to play when it 
comes to safeguarding the rights of the American voter. We have before 
us the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote 
Act ready for passage. We have the opportunity, and the time is now. I 
continue to urge my colleagues, both Republicans and Democrats, to work 
together to swiftly pass these critical voting rights bills

[[Page S64]]

that are needed to protect our elections and our democracy.
  We must bolster the security, accessibility, and transparency of our 
elections in order to mend the wounds of January 6 and begin to heal as 
a nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Minnesota.
  Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleagues, and I 
would like to particularly thank my colleague, the senior Senator from 
Minnesota, for bringing us together today.
  I rise today with my colleagues to commemorate the first anniversary 
of January 6--the attack on our Capitol and the attempted coup to 
overturn our democracy.
  You know, I have thought a lot about this day over the last year, and 
I speak today because I think it is important that we are clear about 
what happened on January 6, how it connects to what has happened since, 
and what needs to happen next. So let me be direct.
  On January 6, there was a violent attack on the U.S. Capitol, led by 
insurrectionists with the explicit goal to overturn our free and fair 
elections and the election of Joe Biden. The attack happened because 
former President Trump and his allies encouraged his supporters to come 
to Washington. They told them, falsely, that the election had been 
stolen. He incited them to violence. Then he sat and watched while the 
Capitol was attacked. These are the facts, and there was no attempt to 
hide it. It is as plain as that wintery January day.
  Now, I am sure that all of us in this room have vivid memories of 
what happened on that day. Moments of crisis leave a deep impression. 
For us, of course, this violence happened in our workplace while we 
were doing our jobs. The Capitol, on January 6, was full of Members of 
Congress, of national political leaders of both parties, and of a Vice 
President whom the former President had exhorted his angry mob to hunt 
down. It was also, though, full of journalists, custodians, and 
cafeteria workers. In this Chamber were our clerks and colleagues and 
Parliamentarians and the stenographers. They are here, hour after hour, 
making this place work.
  You are public servants who were thrown into violent chaos and danger 
by the former President.
  As for law enforcement and first responders, let's remember that 
January 6 was one of the worst days for injuries to law enforcement 
since 9/11, as a violent mob bludgeoned and crushed and wounded and 
killed. That is what happened, and no amount of whitewashing is going 
to change it.
  It also happened, when we came back into this Chamber to finish our 
jobs and to certify the people's votes, that some Republicans spoke the 
truth about the terrible tragedy of that day.
  Senator McConnell said:

       The mob was fed lies. They were provoked by the President 
     and other powerful people.

  Senator Lindsey Graham, sitting right over there, declared in 
reference to the disgraced former President:

       Count me out. Enough is enough.

  So, for a moment, it seemed like we would unify in condemning the 
political violence incited by a President who had betrayed our 
fundamental democratic principles, but later that night, Senator Cruz 
and Senator Hawley and six other Senators voted to overturn our free 
and fair elections, continuing down this reckless path.
  Within days, Republican Party leaders and rightwing media outlets 
began turning away from the facts of January 6. Former President Trump 
was impeached for his seditious actions, but his hold on the Republican 
Party was so strong that only seven Republican Senators voted to 
convict.
  Republicans, to this day, continue to promote the Big Lie that the 
election was stolen from Trump. They claim that the people who stormed 
the Capitol with zip ties and bludgeons were tourists. They have 
attempted to portray the violent insurgents as martyrs rather than as 
domestic terrorists. This is why, today, 58 percent of Republicans 
believe, falsely, that the election was stolen from President Trump.
  The insurrection and coup attempt on January 6 was, ultimately, 
unsuccessful, but this fight continues in State legislatures across the 
country, and they are prevailing. According to the Brennan Center, in 
2021, 19 States passed laws restricting Americans' voting rights and 
giving partisan officials, Republicans, unprecedented control over the 
certification of election results.
  Their plan is right out there in plain view. Step 1 is to make it 
harder for some people to vote. Step 2 is to give partisans at the 
local level the power to ignore and overturn the people's votes. This 
is a coordinated strategy connected directly to the events of January 
6, and it is the path to overturning our democracy if we allow it. We 
cannot allow it.
  Through the January 6 Commission and through the Department of 
Justice, we must hold accountable those responsible for the crimes of 
that infamous day, including those at the top. We also need to pass the 
Freedom to Vote Act, which provides for basic standards for free and 
fair elections and fulfills the promise of our Nation that, in this 
democratic Republic, the people decide.
  Not a single Republican Senator is willing to join us Democrats in 
this endeavor, and that is a tragedy.
  Colleagues, I implore you: We cannot let Republicans hide behind 
Senate rules and block us from taking this commonsense step to 
protecting our democracy.
  In a democracy, a majority of the people decides. That is how it 
works in township meetings and city halls and county board meetings and 
in State legislatures, and that is how it should work in the U.S. 
Senate. We Senators have the power to protect our democracy, and we 
have no excuse not to use that power.
  On January 6, I woke up early, and I wrote down a few thoughts as I 
was heading to the Capitol. I had been sworn into office for the third 
time in 3 years just a few days before. My husband, Archie, had been 
with me for the swearing in, and he had headed home the day before.
  As he left, he said: Are you going to be OK?
  And I said to him: For sure. The U.S. Capitol is one of the safest 
places in the country. I am going to be fine.
  Here is what I wrote that morning before I came to the Capitol.
  I wrote:

       Today is a remarkable day. This morning, I'm filled with 
     optimism. Georgians turned out in record numbers to elect 
     Reverend [Ralph] Warnock [to the U.S. Senate], pastor of Dr. 
     King's home church. And it looks very likely that Jon Ossoff 
     will be victorious, giving Democrats a majority in the 
     Senate. For me, this means the work that Minnesotans sent me 
     to do in Washington can actually get done.

  ``We will get through this day,'' I wrote that morning.

       I truly believe our democracy is resilient and can 
     withstand this desperate coup attempt. But it's a reminder of 
     how hard we [need] to fight for our core principles, that no 
     one is above the law and that . . . a democracy [is when] the 
     people decide.

  Now, little did I know. But my optimism still holds, and my faith 
also still holds--my faith that we can be worthy of the promise laid 
out in our Constitution.
  ``We the People of the United States, in order to form a more perfect 
Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the 
common defense, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings 
of Liberty to ourselves and our Prosperity''--that is our oath and our 
promise.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Pennsylvania.
  Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise, as so many of us have done, on this 
day to do a couple of things--No. 1, to reflect and remember. That is 
important for so many reasons, but we are also here, I think, to 
express gratitude and commendation for so many who work in this 
building, the staff and the Capitol Police and so many others who kept 
us safe 1 year ago today on that awful day.
  I will get to some other issues in a moment, but I want to start with 
just some reflections on what I remember about that day but also what I 
think the country experienced on a day of horror and terror and 
desecration--a day when a group of Americans came to this building to 
stop the counting of the electoral votes, and they were told to do that 
by the then-President of the United States.

[[Page S65]]

  We know all the death that ensued from that, especially of law 
enforcement officers; something on the order of 140 injures, some of 
them grievous, permanent injuries to law enforcement--all based upon 
the violence based upon a Big Lie, a deliberate falsehood that started 
long before even election day. It started during the course of the 2020 
election.
  But despite that Big Lie--I don't want to spend all of today talking 
about that--despite that Big Lie and the violence that flowed from that 
Big Lie and the near collapse of our democracy, despite that, we know 
that something on the order of 60 judges throughout the country--
Federal judges and State judges appointed by Democrats and Republicans 
and even some appointed by the former President--called out that Big 
Lie by rejecting the arguments based upon that Big Lie in about 60 
different matters before those judges.
  So we know what happened, and I think the January 6 Commission will 
continue to put the evidence on the record and hold people accountable, 
but I think on a day like today, I want to focus on two issues. One is 
to express that gratitude that I mentioned before for the thousands of 
Americans who work in this building, the thousands who are not Members 
of Congress who helped us on that day, everything from getting us to 
safety to making sandwiches for us when we were in a safe, secure 
room--something that basic.
  But, of course, so many Americans now know, after all these months 
have unfolded, about the sacrifices made by so many on that day, 
especially law enforcement, but people in this building, who work in 
this building--have done so for years--they, too, were terrorized on 
that day. It wasn't just Members of Congress and the Nation more 
broadly.
  We even had the image--the horrible, disturbing, racist image--on 
television of an American walking through the halls of this building 
with a Confederate flag. It never happened before. Not even during the 
American Civil War had that happened.
  So when we talk about those who have done so much, here is what we 
are talking about: We are talking about people who suffered devastating 
injuries, as I said before, some of them lifelong. The emotional toll 
that this violence imposed upon members of the staff here in the 
building, both during the siege and in its aftermath, is almost 
incalculable. So we are grateful for their service on every day, every 
day of their work, but especially on that terrible day.
  I also want to thank--and we can't do this enough; we can do it a 
thousand times, and it wouldn't be enough--the U.S. Capitol Police and 
the Metropolitan Police Department for all they did to protect us, to 
ultimately quell the violence, and to literally protect our democracy. 
These officers were bruised and beaten. They were attacked with bolts 
and bricks and bats and bear spray, as we saw so much, as well as stun 
guns. They had broken bones. They had concussions, chemical burns, 
scars, stitches, and on and on. That is what violence does to a human 
being.
  They were also subjected to--those who happened to be Black Americans 
in law enforcement or in communities of color--they were subjected to 
horrific racial epithets, the kind of language that should never be 
tolerated not only here in the Capitol but anywhere in our country. 
Some of them were even attacked by an American flag--by a flagpole with 
an American flag on it.
  So what this all adds up to is, unfortunately, not just a mob going 
into a building; this is about domestic terrorism. I think it is an 
important day to be thankful that so many stood up to that domestic 
terrorism in law enforcement. So we both offer our gratitude and try--
as inadequate as it is by mere words--on a day like today to bestow 
some measure of both gratitude and commendation for what they did on 
that day.
  Finally, Mr. President, I think today is a day for resolve, to be 
determined to take action, legislative action. The best way we can do 
that is by passing the Freedom to Vote Act. That is the best thing we 
can do, not only for the next couple of weeks, but really it might be 
the most important thing any of us work on.
  I want to thank Senator Klobuchar and so many others who have worked 
on these issues, not just in the aftermath of January 6 but for 
thinking about the future--the future of our democracy, literally the 
future of whether someone will have a clear pathway in the right to 
vote, the ability to vote in ways that so many Americans were able to 
vote in the midst of the pandemic.
  There were a lot of people back in 2020 who said: Oh, you know, in 
Pennsylvania, you had a big turnout for President in 2016, but that 
turnout is going to go way down because it is a reelection, and there 
is a pandemic, and people won't vote, and people will be afraid to 
vote.
  Guess what happened. We went from about 6 million votes in 2016 to 
almost 6.9 million votes. Almost 900,000 more people voted in 
Pennsylvania than did just 4 years earlier--probably the highest 
turnout in more than 120 years in our State, just like it was for the 
Nation.
  Now, that didn't happen in our State just because people were more 
interested; it happened because we had pathways by way of a change in 
State law to allow them to vote, very similar to what we are trying to 
do by enacting into law the Freedom to Vote Act--being able to vote 
early, being able to vote by way of a mail-in ballot, having a drop 
box.
  What if you are 90 years old and you live in a rural area in 
Pennsylvania? We have 48 rural counties, by the way. What if you live 
in a rural area, and you can't get to the county election bureau to 
drop off your mail-in ballot? Shouldn't you have a drop box if you are 
90 years old and you want to vote? What if you live on a farm? What if 
you are running a farm and you have a busy life or you are running a 
small business? Shouldn't you have the opportunity to vote or should 
you just be restricted to 1 day in the year, 1 day every year for a 
general election, and if you can't get to vote that day, then you are 
not able to vote? Why would we go back to those days? But apparently a 
lot of people in this Chamber are supporting efforts all across the 
country--hundreds of voter suppression bills.
  As Reverend Warnock said, seems like some people don't want some 
people to vote. I don't understand that, after we had record turnout in 
Pennsylvania from 2016 to 2020 because we had different pathways for 
people to vote. That is what we are trying to do with the Freedom to 
Vote Act, to have national standards so people will have a chance to 
vote in the way that they want, in a way that is helpful in terms of 
their family life or their work life. But we are at a point now where 
the Big Lie is perpetuating itself in more ways than one.
  Let me conclude with one thought. My hometown newspaper, the Scranton 
Times-Tribune, published an editorial today.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record 
and as part of my remarks an editorial entitled ``Long year after 1/6/
21, it continues,'' which is dated today.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                 [From the Times-Tribune, Jan. 6, 2022]

                  Long Year After 1/6/21, It Continues

       It would be sobering enough today to look back on the Jan. 
     6, 2021, attack on the Capitol, thus on the people of the 
     United States and the nation's representative democracy, as a 
     singular event. That's impossible because the attack 
     continues. It carries on in statehouses like Pennsylvania's, 
     where lawmakers continue to question the outcome of the 2020 
     presidential election--the most transparent and heavily 
     scrutinized vote in the nation's history--craft bills to 
     diminish the sort of heavy turnout that carried President Joe 
     Biden to victory, waste public money on fraudulent searches 
     for fraud, and gerrymander congressional districts in the 
     cause of minority rule. More than 60 Republican members of 
     the Pennsylvania Legislatures endorsed disqualifying 
     Pennsylvania's electoral votes, which would have 
     disenfranchised 6.8 million Pennsylvania voters, on the 
     preposterous claim that the election law that they had passed 
     less than a year earlier unconstitutionally had skewed the 
     election.
       It continues in the person of disgraced politicians, such 
     as Republican Reps. Dan Meuser and Fred Keller of Northeast 
     and Central Pennsylvania, who supported a lawsuit spawned in 
     Texas that aimed to disenfranchise their fellow 
     Pennsylvanians. Then they voted in the Congress of the United 
     States, after the mob attacked it, not to certify the duly 
     vetted Electoral College results from Pennsylvania.

[[Page S66]]

       It continues in the movement to replace, with partisan 
     hacks, the professional election administrators who resisted 
     pressure in 2020 to cook local and state election results in 
     favor of President Donald Trump.
       It continues in the shameless efforts of many Republican 
     members of Congress--who sensibly ran for their lives as 
     Trump-inspired rioters invaded the Capitol--to characterize 
     the Jan. 6 insurrection as anything other than what it was 
     and is.
       Another day of infamy.
       Americans who care about the future of U.S. democracy 
     cannot view Jan. 6, 2021, as a one-off. It is a date that 
     should be considered in the same sentence as other insidious 
     attacks--Dec. 7, 1941, and Sept. 11, 2001.
       Though the Capitol insurrection was not as deadly as the 
     other attacks, it potentially is more serious because it came 
     from within. And the ongoing results are profound. There is 
     no doubt that it has emboldened totalitarians abroad to 
     challenge democratic regimes and movements. It is not 
     coincidental that Russian strongman Vladimir Putin has 
     amassed troops on the Ukrainian border and that Chinese 
     dictator Xi Jinping crushed a democracy movement in Hong Kong 
     and increased menacing conduct toward Taiwan in the wake of 
     the insurrection.
       Just as sustained action was required following the 1941 
     and 2001 attacks, so it is required in the wake of the 2021 
     insurrection.
       Congress must pass the For the People Act, which would 
     establish a host of election reforms, and the John Lewis 
     Voting Rights Advancement Acts, which would restore 
     protections for voting that the Supreme Court foolishly has 
     diminished by weakening the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
       That will require suspension or elimination of the 
     filibuster in the Senate, which undoubtedly would produce 
     political howling. But the filibuster is a mere procedural 
     rule in one chamber of the Congress. Allowing any one of 100 
     senators the power to diminish the voting rights of millions 
     of Americans is not how a representative democracy is 
     supposed to work.
       Likewise, Congress should update the Electoral Count Act of 
     1887 to eliminate its potential to be a vehicle for a coup.
       And the select House committee investigating Jan. 6, along 
     with the Department of Justice, aggressively must move to 
     hold accountable not only the rioters, but those who 
     facilitated them in any way.
       At some point, Americans might be able to view Jan. 6, 
     2021, as a crisis that U.S. democracy survived. But that day 
     is not today.

  Mr. CASEY. I won't read all of it, obviously, but the point that this 
editorial makes is that the attack continues today. It is not over. It 
is not some event in the past that we are just reflecting upon, as 
important as it is to reflect and remember and offer gratitude and 
commendation. Here is what the editorial says, and I will just read a 
short portion of it. It says:

       [T]he attack continues. It carries on in statehouses like 
     Pennsylvania's, where lawmakers continue to question the 
     outcome of the 2020 presidential election--the most 
     transparent and heavily scrutinized vote in [our] nation's 
     history--craft bills to diminish the sort of heavy turnout 
     that carried . . . Joe Biden to victory, waste public money 
     on fraudulent searches for fraud, and gerrymander 
     congressional districts in the cause of minority rule.

  It goes on from there, saying that the attack continues by all of 
this work to lie about the election of 2020 and to pass voter 
suppression bills all across the country.
  The good news is, that is not going to happen. We are not going to 
allow a partisan minority to prevent us from passing legislation to 
keep that pathway to the right to vote clear in the ways that it was 
clear so that so many Pennsylvanians and many Americans--as I said, in 
my home State, hundreds of thousands more voted in a pandemic than 
voted just 4 years earlier.
  So on this day when we remember with horror that day just a year ago 
and we say thank you to those law enforcement officials and others who 
work in this building and did so much for us and for the Nation, we 
also are determined to move forward to protect our democracy and ensure 
that this great American experiment continues for generations.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Minnesota.
  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, we will be joined shortly by your 
colleague from the great State of Virginia, and I wanted to address 
some of the incredible work done by the Maryland and the Virginia 
National Guard, which was so important that day.
  We have fixed a lot of the issues going forward about how they get 
called in, but that moment when they had to stand up, they did. So we 
really, truly appreciate their help, as well as other National Guards--
from as far away as New Jersey and as close as DC--for helping out that 
day. They made a critical difference.
  I see the Senator from Michigan is here, and we thank him for his 
leadership of the Homeland Security Committee and the work that we did 
together in the aftermath of this insurrection to make sure something 
like this--and to guarantee to the staff and the officers in this 
Capitol that something like this never happens again.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Michigan.
  Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I thank Senator Klobuchar.
  One year ago today, a shocking, violent, and unthinkable attack on 
the U.S. Capitol shook the very foundations of our democracy. I was 
here, in this Chamber, as we were conducting the ceremonial 
certification of our election, and I just remember so vividly as the 
proceedings were so abruptly paused and the Vice President was hurried 
off of the podium by the Secret Service and the confusion as we 
evacuated this Chamber.
  And, in that moment, none of us were aware of the brutal altercations 
that were unfolding all around us as our heroic law enforcement 
officers and first responders fended off the violent mob of 
insurrectionists.
  The images from that day are absolutely horrifying. They are images 
that I and this country will hopefully never forget. We are forever 
indebted to the brave U.S. Capitol Police officers, the DC Metropolitan 
Police, the National Guard, and others whose valiant efforts defended a 
democracy that day and thwarted an attempted insurrection.
  Not only did this attack leave frontline officers with serious 
physical injuries, but it also took the lives of several. The attack 
has taken an unimaginable mental and emotional toll on first 
responders, the Capitol Hill community, and Americans all across our 
Nation who witnessed this assault on the heart of our democracy with 
their own eyes, either here in person or watching it on television.
  Sadly, as we mark this solemn anniversary, the threat that we all 
watched become a violent act 1 year ago has only continued to grow. In 
my role as chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
Committee, along with Rules Committee Chairwoman Klobuchar, we were 
proud to lead the first bipartisan oversight hearings--investigation--
and report on the immediate changes needed to secure the Capitol and to 
prevent a future attack.
  Since that report was released last June, nearly 16 of the 20 
recommendations that we made have been implemented or are well 
underway. The Capitol is secure, and we are much better prepared for a 
future attack.
  But let us be very clear: We must do more to tackle the threat of 
domestic and violent extremism, especially as more and more people 
embrace conspiracy theories and outright lies and report that they 
believe that violence can be justified to get their desired political 
outcomes. Once relegated to the fringes of our society, these kinds of 
views are now creeping further into the mainstream, and that presents a 
grave threat to the future of our democracy.
  There is no easy one solution to address this matter, but there are 
actions that we can take to protect our democracy and strengthen it for 
generations to come. Most significantly, our Nation's political 
leaders, no matter their political affiliation, must condemn the 
violence that occurred on these grounds 1 year ago and speak out 
against the lies and conspiracies about the 2020 election that have 
compelled further threats and acts of violence.
  We must also address how this disinformation and other extremist 
content spreads online, reaches new audiences, and drives too many 
people down a rabbit hole of radicalization. We have seen all too 
clearly how the spread of such extreme content online can swiftly 
become real-world violence. More actions must be taken to limit the 
amplification of disinformation and extreme content online and to 
prevent extremist views from reaching that tipping point into violent 
acts.
  And our counterterrorism agencies must ensure that they are 
effectively focusing on the threat at hand by ensuring that they have 
sufficient personnel and resources devoted to domestic terrorism and 
domestic violent extremism.
  And finally, today and every day, all Americans must remain committed 
to

[[Page S67]]

protecting our democracy. We cannot take our democracy for granted. It 
is built on the promise that every American is committed to the same 
core values of free and fair elections, the peaceful transfer of power, 
and an accountable government for all of the people.
  If we lose this shared commitment to continue upholding our most 
cherished principles, we risk losing the very freedoms and the rights 
that have made our Nation a beacon of light for the entire world.
  Every Member of this body--every American--has a vital role in 
strengthening our democracy. Elected officials on both sides of the 
aisle and at every level of government should make clear that the lies 
and violent action that took place on January 6 have no place in our 
country and commit themselves to restoring faith in our democratic 
institutions by ensuring that everyone can make their voices heard in 
our democracy through the ballot box.
  One year ago, we saw our democracy endure against a violent attempted 
insurrection, but we must be very clear-eyed moving forward. We cannot 
let efforts to weaken and erode confidence in the future of our 
democracy continue.
  Let's come together and take the very real challenges our Nation 
faces head-on. In times of adversity, our country persevered because we 
came together as one. We must channel that spirit and strive to create 
a more perfect Union today, tomorrow, and for generations to come.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Virginia.
  Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, thank you for that recognition, and it is 
great to see you safe and secure, out of your vehicle, presiding over 
the Senate.
  It is a great honor for me to follow my friend the Senator from 
Michigan on this important day, and I want to start by thanking my 
friend and chairperson of the Rules Committee, the Senator from 
Minnesota, for organizing us to come together today to commemorate or 
acknowledge what was a dark, dark day in American history, what 
happened a year ago.
  I want to thank--and I will do this in a more formal way in a 
moment--all the folks who helped protect us on January 6, a year ago. 
And I want to commend an organization that I know the Presiding Officer 
is aware of, as is the Senator from Minnesota and the Senator from 
Colorado--the World Central Kitchen, led by Jose Andres, who is right 
now downstairs--Jose is not, but the organization is--serving Capitol 
Police and other Capitol personnel free meals today.
  It is a wonderful organization that supports those in need all across 
the world and all across the country, and the fact that they are here 
today saying ``thank you'' to our Capitol Police and others is 
appropriate.
  Mr. President, I rise today to mark the anniversary of the January 6 
insurrection in which a mob broke into this Capitol, broke onto the 
floor of the Senate, in an effort to overturn the 2020 Presidential 
election. This was an effort to undermine democracy, plain and simple.
  In the last year, I think most of us have reflected a lot on the 
effort by our U.S. Capitol Police, the DC Metropolitan Police, the 
Virginia State Police, and the Maryland State Police that day. They 
quite literally held the line to protect our democracy. I am personally 
indebted to those individuals who saved so many lives and some of whom 
lost their own.
  And while others, I know, have already come before me and talked 
about the incredible role of the Capitol Police and other allies--the 
Metropolitan Police--as the Presiding Officer knows, the first State 
police to arrive on the scene were Maryland and Virginia. They actually 
got here quicker than the National Guard.
  But I would like to highlight in my comments today another group of 
people who helped quell the insurrection, and that was the Virginia 
National Guard, a group of men and women that I and the Presiding 
Officer have great pride in. We both have served as Governors of the 
Commonwealth of Virginia, and one of the most important roles in being 
Governor--beyond the fact of the incredibly important title you carry 
when you are Governor--is the fact that we served during those each of 
our 4 years, the Presiding Officer and I, as the commander in chief of 
the Guard.
  One of the most meaningful parts I recall was seeing off those Guard 
members, young and old--these are folks who have day jobs and lives and 
studies and work--seeing them off, deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan and 
to respond in the aftermath of hurricanes and floods and welcoming back 
these citizen soldiers in a way that oftentimes doesn't get the 
recognition that they deserve.
  But I, again, think back to January 6. As the crowds grew here on 
Capitol grounds and steadily advanced their positions, eventually into 
this building itself--and, again, so many of us were here. And I think 
the Senator from Oklahoma was speaking as we heard the glass break and 
people shouting, ``Quick, let's secure the doors.''
  I think all of us who work here, our pages, the great members of the 
floor staff, with particular recognition of the Parliamentarian staff--
we come racing in, and we think about those doors upstairs, which are, 
frankly, pretty flimsy. We all remember that day and those moments. It 
was obvious pretty quickly that we were going to need additional force 
to augment the Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police.
  Now, a year ago, it took much too long than was needed to get the 
National Guard to provide that assistance. We had, at that point, a 
convoluted system in place that resulted in delays in getting the Guard 
to the Capitol. I am proud to say that since then Congress--again, 
under the leadership of our chair of the Rules Committee, Senator 
Klobuchar--has passed on a bipartisan basis and the President has 
signed into law the Capitol Police Emergency Assistance Act, which 
empowers the Capitol Police chief to request the assistance of the DC 
Guard or other Federal law enforcement agencies in emergencies without 
the prior approval process that was used in the past: the Capitol 
Police Board and the kind of bureaucratic hurdles that, frankly, didn't 
allow the Guard to get called in a year ago.
  When the decision was finally made to utilize National Guard 
personnel, men and women from the DC National Guard, the Maryland 
National Guard, and the Virginia Guard were literally the first ones to 
be called up. Within hours of the riot and the Capitol being stormed, 
while personnel here on the ground were still working to secure and 
fully regain control of the Capitol Complex, men and women in the 
Virginia National Guard were ready for deployment
  (Mr. KING assumed the Chair.)
  As I mentioned earlier, those of us--and I see now the Presiding 
Officer is the former Governor of Maine. He had that same 
responsibility that I had and the previous Presiding Officer had as 
Governors to be commander in chief of our Guards.
  We know firsthand that the National Guard in each of our respective 
States is a civilian force. These men and women who were called up on 
January 6 and 7 were called from their jobs, their studies, and most 
importantly, their families. They were called from cities and towns and 
big cities and small farming communities all across the Commonwealth. 
Within hours, they mobilized for a domestic deployment to our National 
Capitol.
  I remember one Guard member I met, who lived in Arlington--he was 
working, got the deployment call, rushed back home to pick up some 
clothes, take a shower, and had, frankly, to drive all the way down--I 
think they were mustering in Newport News at that point and then were 
redeployed up here at the Capitol the next morning.
  On January 7, the morning following the riot, the first National 
Guard personnel arrived on the scene to support the ongoing security 
effort and to protect against the possibility of future threats.
  Folks in this room remember how uncertain the immediate aftermath 
was. The men and women of the Guard arrived in DC fully armed and had 
been told to prepare for the possibility of confronting heavily armed 
rioters and protesters--not tourists; heavily armed rioters and 
protesters--and even the possibility that some of those rioters and 
protesters might bring bombs or IEDs that could have been placed in the 
vicinity of the Capitol. We still haven't found the source of those 
bombs that were placed at the Democratic and Republican National 
Committees.

[[Page S68]]

  The weeks leading up to the inauguration, after the 7th and before 
the 21st, even more National Guard personnel poured into DC from across 
the country. The Virginia National Guard continued to perform a 
critical and outsized role in this response, with nearly 2,500 men and 
women--close to 10 percent of the total Guard presence in DC--securing 
the Capitol grounds and Library of Congress, providing quick-reaction 
capabilities to Capitol, Metropolitan, and Park Police, and adding 
critical communications, medical, logistical, and chaplain support.
  I want to specifically highlight the Virginia National Guard's 116th 
Infantry Brigade Combat Team, which played a leading role in protecting 
our Capitol in the weeks following January 6.
  The IBCT, under the command of COL Chris Samulski, led a task force 
of more than 7,400 airmen and soldiers from 12 different States and was 
responsible for maintaining the physical security of the Capitol 
grounds leading up to the inauguration.
  Twice during their mission here at the Capitol, I had the privilege 
of meeting with the Virginia Guard. What I heard time and again was the 
great mix of emotion that came with this deployment. These women and 
men had volunteered for duty to serve the United States and protect our 
Constitution, but what they normally expect that duty to ensue was 
protecting us against our foreign enemies.
  I see my friend, my colleague from Virginia. I know he visited with 
the Guard as well.
  Many of these men and women had been deployed--in some cases, 
multiple times--to Iraq and Afghanistan. Many of these soldiers and 
airmen had been deployed in the aftermath of hurricanes and storms and 
natural disasters. None of them, not only from Virginia but from any 
other State that was mustered here, had ever been deployed when the 
frontline against people who wanted to overthrow our government was not 
abroad but right here in our Nation's Capital. They were as shocked as 
all of us that this very building where we work every day needed 
National Guard protection.
  The truth was, they would spend weeks on duty, camped out in our 
Capitol and around the congressional office buildings. Again, I thank 
the chairman of the Rules Committee. When sometimes they didn't get a 
fair shake or tried to get pushed aside, many of us, under her 
leadership, said: No, these folks should not be pushed out in the cold 
because somebody wants their parking space back.
  I remember their kind of uncertainty. They were kind of saying: 
Senator, we didn't think we would ever be here. But I also remember 
their pride in serving as part of this historic mission and their 
direct role in safeguarding our democracy. Their presence during that 
time, all the way through the inauguration when there were still 
concerns that the mobs might be back, I think helped calm the Capitol, 
not just Members but those who were pages at that point and the many, 
many staff. They helped calm the Capitol and our country.

  While we faced and still face unprecedented challenges as a nation, 
the work and dedication of the men and women of the Guard demonstrated 
that our democracy is stronger than the destructive behavior of any 
mob.
  This is important because the events of January 6 were not an 
isolated event. What happened that day was the product of the Big Lie, 
perpetrated by a former President and cultivated by those who wished to 
chip away at the sacred values upon which our Nation was founded. Those 
same individuals--those same individuals--in many instances continue to 
stoke that lie that our elections are not secure and that they are 
better off in the hands of partisan officials with the authority to 
overturn the results if somehow those partisan officials don't like the 
results of the people.
  Fueled by the Big Lie, a number of States across the country are 
changing laws to undermine the right to vote in free and fair 
elections. The rights of all Americans but especially minority 
Americans--people of color, young Americans--are being attacked, and 
the basic tenets of our democracy are under siege.
  These changes to voting laws are un-American; for example, what 
happened on Wednesday, where, as we heard yesterday--oftentimes in 
precincts of color, particularly precincts with a heavy concentration 
of African Americans, you wait not an hour or 10 minutes in line; you 
wait 2, 5, 8, 10 hours in line. So the idea that we can't give you any 
water or food while you are waiting that 10 hours in line, who is going 
to vote? In States like Texas, where they are saying a local government 
can overturn the results of a local election--that is not democracy. It 
is despicable that some people want to make it harder for eligible 
Americans to participate in our democracy.
  One of the things that we saw and that I am very proud of in the 
Commonwealth of Virginia is that we dramatically expanded our voting 
rights this year. We had an unprecedented turnout. It resulted in favor 
of one party. Our candidate of choice didn't win. The Republican 
candidate won because he helped turn out the early vote.
  The notion--I don't understand those who are trying to restrict. What 
are people afraid of when more people participate? Consequently, that 
is why we need to act now to protect our democracy by passing the John 
Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act. Since 
the Senate has shown it cannot do this basic duty and find 60 Senators 
to support basic voting rights, it is time to change the Senate rules 
so the filibuster can't be abused to continue blocking vital voting 
rights legislation.
  I can think of no better way to honor the sacrifices that were made 
in defense of our democracy last year than by passing these bills to 
prevent further subversion of our electoral system and safeguard our 
democracy for future generations.
  I note my former colleague passed today. I wish many of my Republican 
colleagues were here so they, too, could stand up and express their 
views and thoughts on what happened a year ago. I hope, even if they 
are not here today or tomorrow, that next week, they will come to the 
floor as well. Let their voices be heard. What do they think a year 
after on January 6? Is that acceptable behavior? What do they think 
about the efforts to try to restrict voting all across many places of 
the South? But that is going to change as more and more State 
legislatures come in this year. What are their views on these critical 
issues? Where do they stand on protecting Americans' right to vote and 
preserving our democracy, which was under assault a year ago?
  With that, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Wisconsin.
  Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I rise today to join my colleagues in 
marking a very solemn anniversary. A year ago, our former President, 
Donald Trump, and his Big Lie about the 2020 election incited a violent 
insurrection on our Nation's Capitol and an attack on our very 
democracy.
  We must never forget this dark day in our Nation's history. We must 
never forget the heroic work of the Capitol Police, the Metropolitan 
Police, and the National Guard to protect all of us and this 
institution and its critical work from that violent mob. We must never 
tolerate such an attack on our democracy and our democratic values.
  That disgraceful day led to the deaths and injuries of brave people 
in uniform, created lasting scars for countless members of our 
community, and further opened the door to undermine our trusted 
democratic process for generations to come.
  I applaud the ongoing efforts of the House Select Committee, 
bipartisan in nature, to uncover the truth, to provide accountability, 
and to ensure that this never happens again in our country. But 
Congress cannot stop at making clear to the American people how January 
6 came to be and ensuring those who contributed to this tragic attack 
on our Nation and its institutions face the consequences of their 
actions.
  We must also act to protect the right of every eligible American to 
vote and to secure the integrity of our elections against partisan 
interference because the Big Lie hasn't gone away--far from it. Across 
the country, Republican State legislatures are using it to justify 
attacking our democracy time and time again.
  In the last year alone, more than 400 pieces of legislation--bills--
that restrict access to voting have been introduced in 49 of our 
States, and in at

[[Page S69]]

least 19 of those States, these measures have become law.
  In my home State of Wisconsin, the Republicans in the State 
legislature are willing to disregard the clear reality that 
Wisconsinites from across the political spectrum exercised their right 
to vote in record numbers in a secure, fair, and safe election in 2020. 
Instead, they are pushing Trump's Big Lie to gain a partisan advantage 
by curtailing voting rights and putting up barriers to make it harder 
to vote.
  They are today fleecing taxpayers to support a sham, partisan process 
under the false guise of election integrity, undermining people's faith 
in our elections. At the same time, they are advancing a redistricting 
proposal that will double down on Wisconsin's unprecedented level of 
partisan gerrymandering, all while our hard-working election officials 
are facing threats against their lives simply for doing their jobs.
  Enough is enough. That is why the Senate must take up and pass the 
Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act 
without delay.
  Regardless of where you live in this country, you should have the 
same access to the ballot box and faith that our elections are fair and 
safe. Voting rights has long been a bipartisan issue, but, 
unfortunately, my Republican colleagues are obstructing us from taking 
up this incredibly important legislation and obstructing us from taking 
action to stop voter suppression and protect voting rights.
  The Freedom to Vote Act will counter election interference by 
protecting election officials from the kind of threats, intimidation, 
and harassment that we are seeing across the country and, very 
specifically, we are seeing in Wisconsin. It will put an end to the 
partisan gerrymandering that lets legislators choose their voters, 
something we have seen all too clearly in my home State. And it will 
ensure that there are commonsense, nationwide standards on early voting 
and voting by mail that make it easier for more people to exercise 
their constitutional right to vote, particularly in challenging 
circumstances like this global pandemic.
  The John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act will restore protections 
under the Voting Rights Act against the type of efforts to restrict 
access to the ballot that we continue to see in States across the 
country.
  January 6, 2021, is a day none of us will ever forget. The images of 
insurrectionists assaulting our brave people in uniform, our seat of 
government and democracy, will forever be burned into my mind. But far 
too many would like to whitewash the violent day and pretend the 
insurrection was not an existential threat to our democracy.
  We have colleagues who have inexplicably and falsely said the violent 
mob was a group of mere ``tourists.'' My Republican counterpart from 
the great State of Wisconsin even called January 6 a ``peaceful 
protest.'' These fly in the face of the truth. This is not right, and 
we cannot allow the truth to be buried.
  We must all condemn this insurrection in no uncertain terms, as well 
as the Big Lie about the 2020 election that drove the mob to desecrate 
this hallowed Chamber. And we must honor and strengthen our democracy 
by passing legislation that puts an end to these ceaseless attacks on 
voters and the integrity of our elections.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Colorado.
  Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I feel grateful to have the chance here to 
join my colleagues to mark the anniversary of January 6. I thank the 
chair of the Rules Committee, Senator Klobuchar, for her leadership in 
all of this.
  We had an insurrection here a year ago that could have very easily 
turned into a conflagration if it had not been for the incredible 
bravery of the Capitol Police and the other law enforcement who were 
summoned to the Capitol too late but nevertheless here. The National 
Guard, as my colleague from Virginia was talking about, kept this place 
from being burned down. They kept people from getting killed. They lost 
their lives on that day and in subsequent days because of the trauma 
that they were exposed to. They suffered racial epithets that nobody in 
America should have to suffer, shouted in the halls of this Capitol--T-
shirts with the most racist, holocaust-denying slogans on them.
  And there are people here, as my colleague from Wisconsin said, who 
were claiming that they were acting like tourists. That is a really big 
lie too. This was an incredibly dangerous situation, and we were saved, 
not just us but the staff all over this Capitol and everybody else.
  I just heard somebody downstairs in the basement walking by, and they 
were pointing out one of those pictures that is down there of newsboys 
standing in front of the Capitol when they were kids. And the guy said: 
Those were my great-uncles. Because this place and the people who work 
here--not talking about the Senate but the people who work here who are 
the staff whose grandparents worked here, whose great-uncles who are on 
the pictures downstairs--to them, this was a family, and it was 
attacked. It was assaulted on behalf of people who came summoned here 
by the President, who claimed that the election had been stolen from 
him, who was perpetrating a big lie about what had happened in the 
election.
  There shouldn't have even been a surprise about the results in the 
election. There was little reason for suspense. And it is tragic that a 
year later, we still have to come here and say Joe Biden won the 
election--and he did by any fair study of what happened that day--on 
election day. He won Arizona by 10,000 votes. He won Georgia by 11,000 
votes. He won Wisconsin by 20,000 votes. He won Pennsylvania by 80,000 
votes and Michigan by 150,000 votes. In every one of those swing 
States, he won by more votes than Donald Trump won in his election 
against Hillary Clinton. So this wasn't some razor-thin margin. This 
margin was bigger in those States, except Arizona, than the margin that 
Donald Trump had won when he won the election against Hillary Clinton. 
Joe Biden won this election by 7 million votes.
  Donald Trump actually lost the popular vote when he won the election 
by 3 million votes. But his election wasn't seriously contended by 
anybody, and it shouldn't have been because he had won the electoral 
college, just as Joe Biden had won the electoral college. And he still 
claims the election was stolen, even though there is no evidence that 
that is true. His own Attorney General said it is a lie. His lawyers--
Donald Trump's lawyers--had been thrown out of more than 60 courtrooms 
by State and Federal judges, some of them appointed by President Trump, 
himself, saying that there was no evidence that there was fraud.
  A year later, there has been another incredibly expensive audit or 
review of the election--this time, the election in Georgia. Do you know 
what? There were four people down there who were dead who voted--four 
people. They didn't actually vote. They were dead, but people cast 
ballots on behalf of them. Four people out of 5 million, and one of 
those cast a vote for Donald Trump. But President Trump continues to 
say that there were dead people voting all over the United States of 
America.
  The Associated Press did a review of all those swing States that I 
was mentioning earlier, and they found that if you just looked at the 
disputed ballots--so these aren't even fraudulent ballots because they 
haven't been identified as fraudulent; they are just disputed ballots. 
In all these cases, the disputed ballots came to about 1.5 percent of 
the margin in any one of these races. In other words, in not a single 
one of these swing States where there is a dispute that President Trump 
has brought would it make a material difference, even if it were true 
what he alleges, which it is not.
  He has still doubled down on the Big Lie, and the result is, as my 
colleagues have said here today, there are more than 400 bills 
nationwide in the name of that Big Lie, making it harder for the 
American people to vote, making it harder for them to register, making 
it harder for people to vote early or to vote-by-mail because of a 
myth, because of a lie.
  Slashing the number of polling places and drop boxes. In Texas, they 
are down to one drop box per county. In Colorado, I can practically 
cross my street and vote at a drop box. This is an effort to subvert 
elections to cling to power. That is what is happening

[[Page S70]]

here, and it is based on a massive falsehood, the Big Lie.
  I think one needs to ask oneself, even people who support President 
Trump: What future does the ``stop the steal'' movement imagine for our 
country? What future do they imagine for this democracy--where every 
election is going to be contested; where political violence replaces 
the ballot box; where elections are decided by strongmen, not votes, 
turning us into Russia or China.
  Is that really what we want our legacy to be here in the country? Do 
we want to be the first generation of Americans to decide that it is 
just too hard to do our duty to the people who founded this country, 
the people who fought from the time this country was founded until 
today, who died for the sake of democracy; that it is just too hard; 
that somehow our differences are unique or so important that we are 
going to give up on our shared commitment to the democracy in favor of 
those disagreements?
  I think we need to ask ourselves at a moment like this what we owe 
the generations of Americans that have fought to make this country more 
democratic, more fair and more free. What do we owe the 158 million 
Americans--a record--who showed up during a plague, this COVID 
pandemic, to cast their votes for Donald Trump and for Joe Biden? What 
are they owed and what do we owe our kids and our grandkids? I think 
the answer is very clear, which is a stronger democracy and economy 
that works for everybody, not just the people at the very top.
  And where do we begin? You know, Colorado, I think, is a great 
example where we have made it a lot easier for people to vote. We have 
one of the highest voter turnouts in the country. I always have to say, 
especially when the Senator from Minnesota is around, that we are No. 2 
in terms of voter turnout. Minnesota is No. 1, but we are coming for 
you. And that is the spirit we should all have. We should be trying to 
get more people to vote, not fewer people to vote. We should have vote-
by-mail. We should have early balloting. We have all of that in 
Colorado and one of the highest turnout rates in the Country and no 
fraud--no fraud.
  I am going to just finish by saying we should distrust politicians 
who can't seem to win people's votes with their argument, just as we 
should distrust politicians who attack the free press to avoid 
accountability, even though that free press is enshrined in our 
Constitution. And we should recommit to each other and the democracy.
  Let me tell you something, Mr. President. Last week, we had another 
tragedy in Colorado, another disaster. Pueblo, CO--or Boulder, CO, 
started out this year with a mass shooting in a grocery store. Some of 
you may remember that. And, basically, on New Year's Eve, we had a 
massive fire that ripped through neighborhoods in the Front Range of 
Colorado in Boulder County. A thousand people--a thousand houses were 
burned. More than 30,000 people lost their homes. I sat there thinking 
to myself, as I was with my daughters watching those fires on the 
television set, how much we actually need each other, you know? And 
there is a lot of evidence out there in those 2 days that the law 
enforcement who got those 30,000 people out had almost literally no 
fatalities because of what they did and what they sacrificed. 
Coloradans stepped up that night and said: You can come to my house. We 
will put you up in my house. So out of those 30,000 people, there were 
fewer than 300 people in a shelter that night.
  The reporters, the journalists were out there long into the night 
reporting on that fire so that people might have some sense of whether 
their house had been lost or their house had been saved. Local county 
officials have worked tirelessly after flood and after fire and after 
natural disasters to come together to make sure that we build back 
stronger, which we always do in Colorado--and even, let me say, the 
Federal Government's contribution, the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency--because if there is one reason that we should be one Nation 
under God, it is for a natural disaster like the one that just occurred 
in Colorado.
  This is our choice: We either save this democracy, which I believe we 
will, or we let it go. And it is going to be on us. If we let it go, 
generations of Americans are going to indict us. If we save it, I think 
they will celebrate the work we did here, just as we celebrate the work 
of the people who came before us who made our country more democratic, 
more fair, and more free.
  With that, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Maryland.
  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. I want to thank my colleague from Colorado for 
reminding us of how important it is for us to come together as 
Americans to protect our communities and to protect our country. That 
is really why we are all here today on the floor of the Senate because, 
1 year ago today, we witnessed a violent attack on this Capitol and on 
our democracy itself.
  It was not a sneak attack by a foreign power, like Pearl Harbor. It 
was not an attack by a foreign terrorist group, like 9/11. It was an 
attack from within, and it was orchestrated and instigated by the 
former President of the United States.
  One year later, while we have improved the physical security of this 
Capitol, we have not secured our democracy. Our great American 
experiment remains under as much threat today as it did a year ago, and 
we as Americans have a duty to come together to take action to protect 
it.
  The violent mob unleashed by Donald Trump a year ago stormed and 
sacked this Capitol. Insurrectionists scaled the ramparts, tore through 
the barricades, and breached this building. They used flagpoles to beat 
Officer Michael Fanone and used chemical spray to assault Officer Brian 
Sicknick, who tragically died the next day. A gallows was built outside 
of this Capitol while rioters chanted ``hang Mike Pence.'' Like many 
others, I recall watching horrifying television footage of a rioter 
pulling down an American flag and raising up a Trump flag in its place. 
Confederate flags and banners of far-right extremist groups were 
paraded through these halls. This citadel of our democracy was 
violently attacked. The Capitol Hill community was traumatized and so 
was the country.
  But in that dark hour when our democracy was under attack, members of 
the U.S. Capitol Police, the National Guard, and the DC Metropolitan 
Police stepped up and answered the call.
  There were many stories of bravery from that day, but I want to draw 
attention to Officer Eugene Goodman, a Marylander who protected our 
democracy by diverting the mob away from this Senate Chamber. His 
actions on January 6 saved lives, and Maryland is proud to call him one 
of our own. It is because of the courage of Officer Goodman, his fellow 
officers, and many other heroes that the mob was ultimately forced to 
retreat and the Senate and the House were able to reconvene to finish 
the certification of the electoral count. That was the job that we had 
all come here to do on January 6, 2021, and that was the job the 
rioters had tried to stop.
  They were driven to violence by Donald Trump's Big Lie that the 2020 
election was stolen, and they were hell-bent on answering his call to 
overturn the results of that election and overturn the will of the 
American people. They failed in that effort. On that day, all of us 
were determined not to leave this place until we got the job done and 
certified the vote. And that is what we did.
  And when we returned to the Senate floor after the attack on our 
Capitol, I really believed, for those few hours, that most Members of 
this Senate appreciated the gravity of the moment we had just lived 
through.
  I had real hope that all of us, regardless of party or politics, felt 
the weight of history upon us. I had hoped that most of us grasped the 
idea that the machinery of our democracy does not operate 
automatically; it is not self-executing, that institutions are 
ultimately only as strong as the people who safeguard them, that it is 
up to each and every one of us to nurture and protect our democracy, 
that we are the current stewards of our Republic's tradition of the 
peaceful transfer of power.
  I really believed that night that that was a shared belief in this 
Senate. In my remarks when we returned that evening, I described the 
attack as a wake-up call to the country for all of us as Americans. 
That day showed us exactly what can happen when we fail to come 
together--not as Republicans or Democrats but as Americans, to stand up 
for the truth, to stand up for

[[Page S71]]

our democracy, and to stand up against lies that undermine public 
confidence and faith in our elections.
  That day showed us, in a violent and undeniable way, that if we 
allowed the poison of the Big Lie to continue to spread, our democracy 
would continue to be under threat. I hoped we would heed the warning of 
that horrible day.
  And I was pleased to work with colleagues here, including the Senator 
from Minnesota and others, to help fortify the physical security of our 
Capitol Building. We have delivered additional resources to the Capitol 
Police. We selected a new Sergeant of Arms and a new Chief of the 
Capitol Police.
  And we are continuing to implement the other key recommendations that 
have been made to strengthen the security of Capitol Hill. While we are 
improving the physical security here on Capitol Hill, we are failing in 
our larger duty to the American people.
  We have failed to stop the spread of the Big Lie and its corrosive 
impact on the confidence in our democracy. We know that Joe Biden beat 
Donald Trump in a free and fair election, and yet too many of our 
Republican colleagues put political convenience ahead of country and 
ahead of our Constitution.

  Too many are afraid to state the facts and tell the American people 
the simple truth. And because of that fundamental failure, the Big Lie 
has metastasized and represents a clear and present danger to the 
democratic process throughout the country.
  When the violent mob failed to overturn the election results in this 
Chamber a year ago today, the Big Lie did not end. It materialized in 
other forms to undermine our democracy. As we speak, Republican-
controlled State legislatures, fueled by the Big Lie, are passing laws 
making it harder for people to vote--especially people of color, people 
with disabilities, and younger voters.
  In addition to putting up barriers to voting, proponents of the Big 
Lie are stripping power from election officials who dared to challenge 
Donald Trump's plot to falsely claim victory in the 2020 election. The 
Georgia General Assembly removed Georgia Secretary of State Brad 
Raffensperger as head of the State election board after he denied 
Trump's request to ``find 11,780 votes,'' the exact number he needed to 
defeat Joe Biden in Georgia. It was not enough that Raffensperger, a 
loyal Republican, had voted for Donald Trump. His offense was failure 
to implement the Big Lie.
  In Michigan, Republicans are moving to saturate election wards with 
Big Lie loyalists in an effort to control the counting of ballots. And 
across the country, other laws are being passed at the State level that 
would authorize partisan officials to change or overturn the results of 
elections, even after votes have been cast and counted.
  What we are witnessing is an all-out, continuing assault on our 
democracy. And the longer we wait, the more the threat grows. The clock 
is ticking. Now is the time to act.
  That is why we must establish uniform national standards to protect 
access to the ballot box and ensure that our elections reflect the will 
of the American people, not the political wishes of any party or any 
one person.
  That is exactly what the Freedom to Vote Act does and why we must 
pass it. This bill would defend every American's right to the ballot. 
The Freedom to Vote Act also helps protect election officials from 
unfair removal and guards against attempts to tamper with or change 
election results.
  In addition, the bill contains provisions to keep our elections fair 
and honest, including crucial campaign finance reform and a ban on 
partisan gerrymandering. An enactment of the Freedom to Vote Act should 
go hand in hand with the John R. Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act to 
restore the full protections guaranteed by the Voting Rights Act of 
1965.
  While I had hoped that action to preserve our democracy would be a 
bipartisan endeavor, it is clear that our Senate Republican colleagues 
are not willing to join us in passing these bills.
  Efforts to strike a compromise have been met with virtually zero 
support on the other side of the aisle. Democrats are willing to move 
forward ourselves to protect our democracy, but our Republican 
colleagues have weaponized the current filibuster rule and are using it 
to thwart progress. They have even blocked our attempt to have a debate 
on voting rights when we raised the issue 6 months ago.
  Those actions are undermining the very spirit, the tradition, and 
function of this Senate. The Senate was designed to promote vigorous 
and long debate while also respecting the ultimate will of a majority 
of Senators and a majority of the American people.
  Today, we see the opposite: very little real debate on the Senate 
floor and the denial--the denial--of a majority vote to resolve the big 
questions of the day, resulting in the denial of the will of the 
American people.
  We can change that. We have to change that. We can change it by 
adapting the current rules of the Senate to restore the original intent 
of the Framers. We must do that for the health of our institutions and 
the good of our democracy.
  James McHenry, Maryland's delegate to the Constitutional Convention, 
wrote in his diaries about a famous exchange between Elizabeth Willing 
Powell and Benjamin Franklin. He wrote:

       A lady asked Dr. Franklin Well Doctor what have we got a 
     republic or a monarchy--A republic replied the Doctor if you 
     can keep it.

  A year ago today on this floor, I quoted this exact exchange. And 
now, on the 1-year anniversary of January 6, we are still met with the 
same question and same test of whether or not we can muster the will to 
do what must be done to keep our Republic. There is still time. We can 
still repair and sustain our democracy.
  One year ago, we did not allow a violent mob to prevent us from 
staying right here to do our job. We completed the certification of the 
Presidential election, but our job is not over. We have not finished 
the job of security or democracy.
  Now is the time for us to do that. Let's come together and do what is 
necessary and right for our Republic, for our democracy, and for the 
American people.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Virginia.
  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I am so happy to join my colleagues on the 
floor in a very solemn effort to think through the meaning, at a 1-year 
anniversary, of the attack upon the Capitol on January 6.
  Today is not only that anniversary. Today, in the Christian 
tradition, is the Feast of the Epiphany. And I remembered, sitting in 
the Chamber last year, as we were barricaded in, under attack, and with 
the confusion all around me, at one point I realized: Today is the 
Feast of the Epiphany--the Feast of the Epiphany, January 6.
  What is Epiphany? The Feast of the Epiphany celebrates the arrival of 
the magi at the manger. Wise men of the day saw a portent and 
disturbance in the sky, and were led to a place where they believed 
something remarkable would happen.
  What they found completely surprised them. It wasn't what they were 
expecting. It wasn't power. It wasn't pomp. It wasn't majesty. It was a 
tiny baby, born to a family too humble to even get a room at an inn, 
lying with his mother in a stable, surrounded by barnyard animals.
  They found something that they couldn't have imagined, and it changed 
their lives and it changed the world.
  Why do I reference the Feast of the Epiphany? I reference it because, 
like many things in the Christian story, it has gone way beyond 
Christianity.
  By the middle 1700s or 1800s, the word ``epiphany'' now had a broader 
use. It was not just about the arrival of the magi at the manger. The 
word ``epiphany'' now means something much more widespread in the 
English language. It is defined as a moment in which you suddenly see 
something in a new or very clear way.
  The word ``epiphany'' comes from a Greek root meaning reveal. All of 
us--all of us--no matter how long we have been around, have the 
capacity for epiphanies--deeper understandings of essential truths that 
reveal themselves in our lives.
  I want to talk about January 6 and one epiphany I have had as a 
result of it.
  Before I do, I want to acknowledge five people, five Virginia law 
enforcement officers, who lost their lives in the days after the 
Capitol attack.

[[Page S72]]

  I thank my colleague Senator Warner, who talked at really important 
length about the contributions of the Virginia State Police and the VA 
National Guard. I want to focus on five people: Brian Sicknick, U.S. 
Capitol Police, 42-year-old, after service in the military, had been 
with the Capitol Police for 13 years, dying immediately after the 
attack because of injuries he received that day; Jeffrey Smith, another 
Virginian, 35 years old, 12-year patrolman with the Metropolitan Police 
Department, died after the attack, by suicide; Howie Liebengood, 51 
years old, a 15-year veteran of the U.S. Capitol Police, died shortly 
after the attack, by suicide; Kyle DeFreytag, 26-year-old, 5-year 
veteran of the Metropolitan Police Department, died a few days after 
the attack, by suicide; Gunther Hashida, 43 years old, an 18-year 
veteran of the Metropolitan Police Department, died in the days after 
the attack, by suicide--all Virginians.
  I am haunted by these deaths, and I will say, I am particularly 
haunted by those who died by suicide, whose families are now fighting 
to get line-of-duty benefits for their deaths.
  All of us, in our lives, have been affected by suicide in families 
and friends. And suicide is complicated. There is not a single thing, 
as you dig into a suicide, but I just use the insights I have gained as 
a member of the Armed Services Committee, together with you, Mr. 
President.
  Over the time we have been here, there has been a slight shift in 
understanding of causes of suicide within the military.
  The conventional wisdom about it, when I came here, was that suicide 
was driven, maybe, as a principal factor in the military and among 
veterans because of the cumulative effects of trauma. The trauma was so 
significant that that led to suicide. Of course, trauma is a key 
factor, but a more recent understanding of suicide suggests that an 
even more important factor may not be trauma, but a sense of 
abandonment.
  I was in a military unit. I had a lot of people around me. They had 
my back. We were close. We were connected. We were really tight. And 
then I moved into a civilian world, where I didn't have that connection 
and people didn't have my back, and I was lost, and I didn't know whom 
to turn to or who would look out for me.
  I am haunted by the deaths of these four Virginians to suicide 
because I wonder if they felt abandoned. Did they feel abandoned by us?
  They were fighting that day to save our democracy, to save this 
Capitol, and to save their lives, and yet 147 of the 535 Members of 
Congress voted with the mob to overturn the election, to throw out the 
democracy, to do the bidding of a would-be authoritarian.
  If you are fighting to protect these 535 Members of Congress and this 
institution and you watch nearly 30 percent of the Members side with 
the attackers, I would suggest that they might have felt abandoned.
  When I was here on January 6, I experienced a lot of emotions, and I 
am just going to describe two: relief and anger.
  Relief? How could that day create a sense of relief?
  I was relieved that I had told my staff to stay home. My chief of 
staff disobeyed me. But I was relieved that I had told my staff to stay 
home. Thank God, they were safe.
  I was relieved to look right here and see no pages. I was relieved 
that pages were not here in this Chamber, because, thank God, they 
would be safe.
  And I was relieved not only because my staff was safe, but I was 
relieved because I didn't want their youthful, altruistic, public-
service motivation to be damaged or demoralized by what was happening 
that day.
  I expressed this to my staff this morning. I sent a note to them, and 
I said: In the middle of all these emotions, I was relieved that you 
weren't here; that I had told you to stay home so you wouldn't be in 
danger like so many were. But I don't want you to be demoralized by 
what happened.
  And I had a staff member come to me right before I came to the floor 
and said: January 6 didn't demoralize me; it energized me.
  Thank God for that.
  The second emotion that was so powerful in me, and even so powerful 
that I couldn't quite understand it, was anger. Now, of course, anger 
would be an acceptable and completely understandable reaction to what 
was going on. And I have known anger in my life, but the anger I felt 
that day was different than what I had felt in 63 years. There was 
something different about it.
  And it took me months--it took me months--to figure it out. Was it 
just the physical attack? Was it the friends and staff and other people 
who were in danger? Yeah, that was all part of it.
  It took me months to figure out exactly why I was so angry. And then 
I had an epiphany. I had an epiphany.
  No one in my life had ever tried to disenfranchise me. I am a White 
male, born in 1958. I am a civil rights lawyer in the capital of the 
Confederacy, fighting for voting rights for all kinds of people. Of 
course, voting rights were important. I was passionately committed to 
it in my professional life before I came here, but it was something 
that I was sort of, you know, trying to do to help others. No one had 
ever tried to disenfranchise me.
  But what was going on on the floor that day was an effort to object 
to the very first State, as you went through them alphabetically, that 
had voted for Joe Biden, to object to that State and try to 
disenfranchise, through that objection and others that were lined up, 
the 80 million people who had voted for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. 
All of us who cast our ballots that way, we were being disenfranchised 
that day.
  It had never happened to me before. For some Americans, they had 
experienced disenfranchisement often in their lives. Some Americans 
have experienced disenfranchisement during their whole lives. Some 
Americans have experienced disenfranchisement not for 4 hours but for 4 
centuries. It had never happened to me.
  For a few hours, and just a few--and just a few--I felt the pain of 
those who have faced disenfranchisement efforts to take away or 
threaten their vote for their whole lives, and I hated it. I hated that 
feeling. I hated that feeling.
  My epiphany was one of empathy: So this is how it feels when others 
scheme to take your vote, when they try to exclude you, when they try 
to say you don't count. This is how it feels. It hadn't happened to me 
before, and for a few hours, it did.
  The next morning, I walked into the Capitol and the Sun was shining 
and the threat to me was past. We had finished the work. The 
insurrection delayed the certification and peaceful transfer of power, 
but it couldn't stop it.
  But the epiphany of briefly being in the shoes of those who have been 
disenfranchised throughout their lives has changed me profoundly. It 
hasn't changed my personality. It hasn't changed my relationships. But 
it has changed my priorities.
  Again, I was a civil rights lawyer doing voting rights work in the 
capital of the Confederacy. Protecting the right to vote has always 
been important to me. Protecting the integrity of campaigns and 
elections have always been important to me. But now it is beyond that. 
It is not just an important priority, it is an existential necessity 
that we respond to the mass disenfranchisement effort of January 6, 
with guaranteeing the franchise; guaranteeing people's right to vote; 
guaranteeing that, when they vote, they can be secure that their vote 
will be counted; guaranteeing that they can trust the integrity of the 
officials that will call the outcomes of elections.

  My epiphany of empathy has put me in the shoes, for a few hours, of 
those who have experienced disenfranchisement, and I have concluded 
that the only response to that has to be--has to be--a concerted effort 
to protect voting and protect the democracy that relies upon it.
  I will say this and conclude: January 6 will always be remembered as 
the attack on the Capitol. January 6 will always be the Feast of the 
Epiphany. January 6 was a day in our history of epiphanies.
  But what is the purpose of an epiphany? Is it just to kind of see 
things a new way?
  I think the purpose of an epiphany is to change your life; it is to 
be surprised. Go and see something that you didn't expect, and then be 
willing to adjust your life and your priority as proof that you were 
paying attention.
  We will be faced with a most significant decision in the coming days. 
Having been the 100 Senators out of the 2,000 in history who have 
inhabited this

[[Page S73]]

Chamber who were here during the attack, will we understand what 
happened, absorb that epiphany, and then act to protect people's rights 
to participate in this democracy?
  I pray that we will. I pray that we will.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New Jersey.
  Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, I stand here today with a sober heart. I 
am a big believer that if America hasn't broken your heart, you 
probably don't love her enough.
  We are here on the 1-year anniversary of one of our great Nation's 
moments of shame.
  We saw a violent attack on this Capitol, ignited and incited by 
demagogues who were trying to spread a lie; telling people their votes 
were stolen by a President who broke with our traditions of a peaceful 
transfer of power and told his supporters to come to this building.
  (Mr. VAN HOLLEN assumed the Chair.)
  On that day of that vicious attack, we saw heroic actions by men and 
women who stood in the breach to try to protect the 535 Members of 
Congress, their staffs--the people in this body who do so much good to 
keep this Nation's traditions moving. As a result of that conflict, 
lives were lost. Brian Sicknick from my State died as a result of his 
injuries.
  The feelings of that day are still with me. I was sitting right here 
next to friends and colleagues as we were told to stay in our seats, as 
we were told that the Capitol was under attack. I watched the basic 
decency of people in this room as staffers came in, in tears and in 
pain, and the comforting that I saw of some of my colleagues, and I 
watched other staff members protecting historic artifacts, protecting 
the very boxes that would ensure that our tradition would continue; 
that here on this Earth, a nation would be formed that values that 
highest ideals of humanity; that the people can come together and form 
amongst them a system of government.
  We were escorted out that door, and I think the gravity of it really 
hit me when we came right out that door, and one of the first things I 
saw was an officer down.
  I rushed over, and I said: ``What happened?''
  He said: ``I was hit. I was hit.''
  All along our retreat in that ignominious moment, all along that 
retreat, we saw officers injured.
  I eventually walked and worked my way to my office, and I will never 
forget this moment as long as I live. I felt not just my own pain, but 
I thought immediately of my dad, and I felt the pain of my ancestors 
because, when I turned on that screen, the very first thing I saw was 
the Confederate flag, and it all came rushing to my heart, and I felt 
an ache and a hurt. My heart was broken.
  I know that day shocked a lot of people, but when I saw that flag, it 
connected to a current of the dark eddies of our Nation's history that 
have persisted because violent mobs from the beginning of our country 
have tried to stop our democratic traditions.
  That flag in so many communities in this country is carried by 
Klansmen, carried by those who took democratically elected officials--
Blacks in Southern States--ripped them from their offices, dragged 
judges out into the street, beat them, lynched them. That was their 
flag.
  As I watched from my office, I saw swastikas. I saw Muslim hate. I 
talked to Black officers here, and as they defended the country they 
loved, they were repeatedly called the N-word over and over again. You 
can't be surprised. You just can't.
  As we have always, in every generation, tried to make a more perfect 
union, this is part of that story--people who want to stop the march of 
democracy. Do you think that the suffrage movement didn't face 
violence? It did, as people tried to intimidate and beat and stop the 
equal franchise. Do you think the civil rights movement didn't face 
violence? How many martyrs' names do we know, people who were shot down 
and killed because they did not want them to have equal representation?
  Why did I ache for my ancestors? Because those were the stories of my 
grandparents, those were the stories of my father, of the fear and 
intimidation of just trying to exercise their franchise.
  Why are we surprised by demagoguery and hate in our Nation? It is a 
part of our story. But the greatness of our country is not that that 
existed but the good people who have come together in every generation 
and said: Not on our watch. We are better than this. We will pull 
together, out of the great, vast diversity of our Nation, a rainbow 
coalition of people dedicated not to a race or religion but to a 
national ideal.
  I am here as a Senator, just the fourth Black person ever elected 
popularly in our Nation's history. I am here because White folks and 
Black folks and Asian folks and all Americans didn't just hope for a 
better democracy, didn't just condemn violence; they worked to preserve 
and protect and advance our Nation.
  What are we doing now? Is this going to be a day where we just 
condemn what happened? Is this just going to be a day where we point 
fingers of blame and feel good in our contempt for those who were at 
the core of that? If that is what this day is about, it is for naught 
because we fail then to recognize this is not about a day. This was not 
1 day. It was not one moment. It is a part of our story, and the 
threats continue. How can we be blind to the violence that has 
continued since that day?
  Threats on Federal judges--we had a Federal judge's family shot and 
killed in my State. They are up 300, 400 percent. Threats on Members of 
this body, threats on all 535 Congresspeople are up around twofold.
  Do you think this is about a day, when election officials, 
nonpartisan people, all across this country are now seeing threats? 
Reuters documented more than 850 threatening, hostile messages aimed at 
election officials. In Philadelphia, a Republican who dared to tell the 
truth about the election, mirroring the words of then-President Donald 
Trump's highest official that the election was fair--what happened to 
him? Threats and intimidation. People calling his home, literally 
threatening to murder his three children.

  You think this is about 1 day in time?
  A survey from the Brennan Center for Justice in April of 2021 found 
that one in three U.S. American election officials feels unsafe because 
of their job, and about 20 percent listed threats to their lives as a 
job-related concern.
  This is not a foreign country. This is the United States of America, 
and our election officials, nonpartisan individuals--Republicans, 
Democrats, fellow Americans--are afraid to do their job because they 
tell the truth.
  This is not about 1 day. This is not. This is a story of the founding 
of our country. As our Founders tried to break with the course of human 
events and establish here the greatest experiment of humanity, there 
were people who wanted authoritarianism; there were people who wanted 
bigotry; there were people who wanted to protect with violence the kind 
of despotism that we broke away from.
  We make a big mistake if on this day, we just talk about what 
happened here. We have protection. We have security. But all across 
this country right now, there are believers in this democracy who have 
the same fears that my grandparents did, the same fears that my father 
did, the same fear that Blacks and Whites who joined arms to march 
across the Edmund Pettus Bridge for voting rights did. This is a 
cancer. It has always been here. And we make a tragic mistake just by 
talking about this day, because when I survey the United States of 
America, I am so worried. There has never been a time in my life where 
I have been more worried about this democracy.
  I grew up with stories of family members who talked about the 
preciousness about what it is to vote. They love the heroes of John F. 
Kennedy and Medgar Evers and these people who fought for them from all 
backgrounds. My parents taught me to love people--Jewish people, like 
Abraham Joshua Heschel and Joachim Prinz; people who knew that in 
America, if you just fight for your own rights, who are you? This is a 
nation where we know we are all in this.
  But I stand here today to ask you, why aren't we talking about the 
fact that in States right now, laws are being passed specifically 
designed to

[[Page S74]]

disenfranchise people? Don't take my word for it. The year I came to 
this body, in 2013, a Federal judge in North Carolina looked at that 
voting law and said it was designed ``with surgical-like precision'' to 
disenfranchise Black Americans.
  But I don't need to go back to 2013 to see reason for us all to be 
concerned. When early voting started in the fall of 2020 in Georgia, 
some voters had to wait up to 10 hours to vote in six metro areas in 
Georgia counties--six metro areas.
  At polling places where minorities constituted more than 90 percent 
of active, registered voters, the average wait time in the evening for 
those Black communities was 51 minutes. When Whites comprised 90 
percent, in those communities, the average wait time was 6 minutes. 
Think about this for a second. Are we satisfied with a democracy where 
in some communities, the Black communities will have to wait eight 
times longer to vote? Is that what we mean, equal justice under the 
law? Is that what we mean when we look at our flag and say ``liberty 
and justice for all''?
  There are States right now passing voting laws to make it harder to 
vote. What happens when a working mom with three kids shows up, and the 
line is a 1-hour wait or a 2-hour wait? What does she do? Is it fair to 
her? Then they go as far in Georgia--say that person does want to wait 
and brings a folding chair and sits there for 2 and 3 and 4 hours. They 
make it illegal, for that person who might have diabetes, illegal, for 
that person who might have a mental condition, for someone to bring 
them water.
  I am sorry. I grew up--and I confess it on the Senate floor--with the 
naive belief that the stories of my father and the stories of my 
grandparents were history; that we wouldn't live in a country where 
Black people are waiting eight, nine times the wait of White people; 
that in some communities, the wait would be 5, 6, 7 hours--a day's work 
for families who can't afford to give up a day's work.
  You think this was about a day? I tell you it is about the cancer in 
our democracy that has been here from its start. This country's very 
survival has to be faced every generation. Democracy is not certain. It 
is not automatic. Democracy is hard.
  Democracy takes work. Democracy takes sacrifice, but as we sit here 
now, in dozens of States, laws are being passed that disproportionately 
impact the disabled, that disproportionately impact Native Americans, 
and that disproportionately impact people of color.
  So when I go back to the Confederate flag I saw waving just feet from 
where we stand right now--a flag that got so much currency during the 
backlash after Reconstruction and that got so much currency during the 
backlash after Brown v. Board of Education--I know it is part of a 
larger problem and that none of us who love our Nation and love this 
democracy can ever rest.
  There are two people I want to mention before I conclude, both men I 
have come to admire. Both men risked their lives for this country. They 
weren't like our great, great veterans who fought nobly--and many of 
them died--but I hope we don't cheapen the truth of their stories 
because they did the work here at home, evidencing our highest values 
when our Founders wrote in the Declaration of Independence that we must 
mutually pledge our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor.
  Both of these men happen to be Black, but it is a value that is 
evidenced in all backgrounds and all people. I am here because of that 
truth. Both of them were riddled with hateful words, called the N-word 
over and over and over again. One of those men I had the privilege of 
serving with, and both of these men were violently attacked. John Lewis 
was violently attacked as he tried to advance this democracy. He was 
beaten and had his head cracked open on the Edmund Pettus Bridge. He 
was spit on at sit-ins, and he won battles with others. He came to 
Congress, and he worked and fought and defended.
  Republicans and Democrats supported the voting rights bill, but then 
it was gutted by the Supreme Court. Maybe you will have the experience 
I have had of when your heroes become your friends. I would ask him how 
it felt to watch part of his life's work be torn apart and have these 
new voting laws that disproportionately impact African Americans. How 
did it feel?
  John Lewis, who was this man of peace and this man of grace, just 
said to me: You cannot stop the work of this democracy. One 
generation's gains don't pass on like an inheritance to the next. They 
have to earn them.
  The other person is a guy named Harry Dunn. Like John Lewis, he put 
his life on the line in defending the Capitol. He is a Capitol Police 
Officer. When I read and saw his interviews after battling to save our 
lives against a mob incited by a demagogic President, he was sitting 
under the Rotunda and turned to another person after being called the 
N-word over and over again and said simply: ``Is this America?''
  I hope all of us see that we have a responsibility to answer that 
question.
  The John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote 
Act will be part of the answer to that question of whether a little 
Black boy and a little Black girl and a little White girl and a little 
White boy who go to vote with their parents can see an equal voting 
opportunity. That is going to be an answer to that question. Every 
generation has got to make this country live up to its promise. We are 
losing ground, and it didn't start on January 6 of last year.
  I end with an answer, an inadequate answer, to Officer Dunn, in a 
poem I learned from my parents and in a poem I shared an affection for 
with John Lewis that calls upon every American not to point fingers of 
blame to others but to accept a responsibility not just to be satisfied 
in your contempt for some but to rise up as a force of light and love 
for all.
  I end with Langston Hughes' poem:

     O, let America be America again--
     The land that never has been yet--
     [But] yet must be--the land where [everyone] is free . . . 
           the poor [man], [Indian], [Negro], ME--
     Who made America . . .
     Whose faith and pain,
     Whose hand at the foundry, whose plow in the rain,
     Must [make this] mighty dream [live] again.
     O, yes,
     I say it plain,
     America never was America to me,
     And yet I swear this oath--
     America will be!

  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Massachusetts.
  Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, first, I want to thank Senator Booker for 
his powerful, powerful statement. The whole country has to hear what he 
said.
  I want to thank Senator Kaine for your powerful words as well. It is 
just so important that people of your stature speak to our country on 
what we should be aspiring to do. Thank you for your leadership.
  Thank you to Senator Klobuchar for organizing this incredibly 
important moment on the first anniversary of the insurrection against 
the Capitol.
  One year ago, my colleagues and I started the day in this Chamber, 
ready to ratify the electoral college votes and declare Joe Biden the 
next President of the United States. Instead, Members of Congress were 
forced to take shelter under their desks and under Gallery benches, 
place gas masks over their heads, and pray that they would make it home 
to their families that day. Our staffs, journalists, Capitol workers 
wondered if they would live through the day, and their views of their 
workplace changed forever.
  Instead of a day celebrating the workings of our democracy, our 
Nation was met with anti-democratic, White supremacist forces storming 
their way inside this building, violently attempting to overturn the 
results of the 2020 election. It was an insurrection.
  One year ago, the people's Houses changed, but even though the 
ratification process, which recognizes the will of the American people, 
was interrupted, it was not defeated. On the night of January 6, 2021, 
as Members of Congress returned to the Chamber to ratify the results of 
the election of 2020, our democracy prevailed.
  We thank the Capitol Police. We thank them for what they did that 
day. Some lost their lives. Some were injured. Some still suffer from 
the traumatic impact of what they had to do in order to protect these 
Chambers, in order to protect the electoral college votes that were in 
the well of this Chamber. The whole country owes a

[[Page S75]]

debt of obligation to those police officers and what they did to stand 
here and to protect all of us--the staff, the Members, the 
Parliamentarians--but to, more importantly, protect democracy because 
we were able to return here after 8 p.m. that night in order to cast 
those votes. We owe a great debt of gratitude to those police officers 
who sacrificed so much on that day.
  Tragically, former President Donald Trump's Big Lie has turned into 
the Big Threat to our democracy. The insurrectionists were unsuccessful 
in overturning election results, but the death, injury, and breach of 
national security they caused must be held to account.
  I want to thank the House of Representatives' Select Committee to 
Investigate the January 6th Attack for their commitment to that ongoing 
mission as well as the hard-working men and women of the Department of 
Justice who have already brought charges against more than 725 
individuals for their involvement in the insurrection.
  Donald Trump does lie, but the video, texts, and messages from 
January 6 do not lie. We all saw what happened that day, and anyone who 
orchestrated, abetted, or participated in the January 6 attack must be 
held accountable. That includes those at the very highest level of our 
government. It means, as Attorney General Merrick Garland said 
yesterday, ``follow[ing] the facts wherever they [may] lead.'' If the 
facts lead to Donald Trump's criminal responsibility for the 
insurrection, then he should face the same consequences as anyone else, 
even if it means the only place he will be in 2024 is in jail.
  Even as we now reflect on this day 1 year later, we must understand 
that investigation and prosecution alone will not prevent another 
attack on our democracy. This problem is larger than any one person or 
candidate or election cycle. We cannot forget the role that online 
platforms played during the lead-up to the insurrection. Make no 
mistake, social media platforms have become hotbeds of disinformation, 
hate speech, and dangerous conspiracy theories. Today, the seeds of 
offline harms are planted, grown, and spread online.
  In the days before insurrectionists attacked the building, social 
media platforms, black boxes, algorithms promoted election 
misinformation and political groups that spread Trump's Big Lie. We 
need to open the hood to the online systems that are pushing toxic 
content to the public and feeding dangerous social movements online.
  But the January 6 mob was fueled not only by the Big Lie but by the 
global rise of authoritarian and nationalist movements that reject the 
basic principles of American democracy of quality, freedom, and the 
peaceful transfer of power. The attack on the Capitol revealed the 
growing fragility in our democratic processes and institutions and a 
systemic weakness caused by years of falsehoods and policies meant to 
undermine our right to vote in free and fair elections. It is 
unbearable to think that a big part of America no longer believes in 
any kind of democracy. They no longer believe in the rules that we all 
live by and the pursuit of goodness and fairness and progress.
  Donald Trump is gone from the White House, but we know that the hate 
and division that defined his corrupt tenure has been with us since our 
founding. So many were willing to believe lies about the legitimacy of 
President Biden's victory because they had lost faith in the integrity 
of our democratic system. Some were even willing to engage in horrific 
violence because they believed elections could be stolen. The 
architects of the January 6 authoritarians, White nationalists, and 
those who stand to benefit from the continued undermining of our 
democracy want us to feel this way.
  For years, the dangerous coalition has worked to limit access to the 
ballot box, undermine fair voting districts, and continuously spread 
disinformation about voter fraud. In the wake of their attack on the 
Capitol, they now have accelerated their efforts. In 2021 alone, 19 
States have passed 34 laws restricting the access to voting, continuing 
the assault on our electoral system. These efforts have eroded 
Americans' faith that they can actually choose their own elected 
Representatives, sabotage public truth in electoral outcomes, and 
disenfranchise countless voters, especially communities of color, 
indigenous people, the poor, young Americans, and individuals with 
disabilities.
  The Big Lie is that the election was stolen from Donald Trump in 
2020. It was not. The Big Truth is that Donald Trump and his allies 
have put in place a process to steal the election of 2022 and 2024. 
That is the Big Truth of what is going on in this country, right now. 
And the way they are going to accomplish that Big Truth is by having 
State after State in the United States pass laws which restrict the 
access to vote for Black and Brown and indigenous, and poor and 
disabled Americans. That is the Big Truth about what is going on in our 
country right now--a systematic plan to steal the election of 2022, to 
steal the Presidency in 2024.
  And the Republican Party has become a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Donald Trump on the issue of voter suppression, on the issue of making 
it impossible for this body, for the U.S. Congress, to pass laws which 
protect the rights of every American to vote.
  But we do have a chance, right now, on the Senate floor, to stand up 
to this anti-democratic movement and to banish these discriminatory 
policies and put them in the political dust bin of history.
  The Senate can and must take action to pass the John Lewis Voting 
Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act, and we must abolish 
the filibuster, if just for this issue, to protect the right to vote 
for every person in our country.
  With these bills, if we modify the filibuster, American voices will 
no longer be drowned out by special interests, by redistricting that 
keeps Black and Brown communities marginalized, and by voting laws that 
are reminiscent of poll taxes and literacy tests that were used for 
centuries to stop Black voters, minority voters from participating in 
our democracy.
  We need expanded early and mail-in voting. We need automatic and 
same-day voter registration. We need to make election day a national 
holiday. We need to get rid of hours-long voting lines. We need to ban 
partisan gerrymandering. We need to get dark money out of our 
elections. We need to end the discriminatory voting laws that restrict 
access to the ballot box on the basis of race and age and income and 
more.
  We now have the opportunity to make sure that every voice is heard in 
our democracy: the 85-year-old Black woman in Georgia who has waited 
hours to cast her ballot without even a bottle of water; the newly 
naturalized family in Arizona who took the bus 45 minutes to the 
closest voting location, energized by the chance to fully participate 
in American democracy; the mother of four in Massachusetts who works 
two jobs just to make ends meet and desperately needs that mail-in 
ballot. These are the voices that the ugly mob of hate and violence and 
division that attacked the Capitol on January 6 do not want to be heard 
in American politics, in 2022, in the United States of America.
  But will we stand up? We have to ensure that at our moment in 
American history, there is enough evidence to convict us of having 
stood up for democracy, of having fought for all of those who will 
otherwise be disenfranchised this year, 2022, in the United States of 
America. Otherwise, we will have been found wanting in preserving the 
foundations of our democracy, that we will have fixed this broken 
system of government that is being dismantled by Republicans across 
this country, State after State, with Republicans here in Washington 
unwilling to cast a single vote--not one Republican willing to stand up 
and say: We must pass laws to protect against what is happening in 
State after State to suppress the votes of Black and Brown and disabled 
and poor and indigenous Americans.
  With the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to 
Vote Act, we will not only guarantee that all Americans can exercise 
their vote--their right to vote in free and fair elections--we can also 
counter the distrust and the disenfranchisement that the 
insurrectionists exploited on January 6. These reforms can restore 
Americans' faith in the peaceful transfer of power and prevent another 
attempt at insurrection by ensuring we have a government that is truly 
of, by, and for the American people.

[[Page S76]]

  One year after the attack on the Capitol, we understand how fragile 
our democracy is and that the fight to protect it requires vigilance 
and clear-eyed determination. The very least we can offer the American 
people--all American people--on this day is our commitment to protect 
their right to vote.
  Former Attorney General Ramsey Clark, who helped draft the original 
Voting Rights Act in 1965, once said:

       A right is not what someone gives you; it's what no one can 
     take from you.

  Let us pass this historic legislation so that no one can take the 
fundamental right to vote away from those who rightfully have it today.
  The job of building and protecting a healthy and strong democracy is 
the sacred duty of this institution. The fate of the United States 
depends on us doing our jobs. May this day, January 6, always remind us 
that we must never give up that fight. And, here, in 2022, let us win 
this fight on the floor of the U.S. Senate to protect the right to vote 
for every American, regardless of the State they live in, regardless of 
their color, their religion, their country of origin. That is our 
historic responsibility.
  God help the Senate if it does not respond to this historic 
challenge.
  I yield back.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, before he leaves, I want to thank my 
colleague from Massachusetts. We have worked often together on these 
democracy issues, and I look forward to doing that in the days ahead.
  I also want to commend Senator Klobuchar from Minnesota because she 
has been our point person on the Rules Committee, which is central to 
this whole debate. I think we all understand what is at stake. That is 
what my colleagues have been outlining. And I think we have been very 
fortunate to have Senator Klobuchar at the helm. She and I have worked 
together on one of the issues I am going to talk about, vote by mail, 
but I just want people to understand how valuable she has been.
  Mr. President and colleagues, a year ago today, not far from where we 
stand this afternoon, domestic terrorists tried to beat our democracy 
to the ground. They might have been successful were it not for the 
police officers who defended our democracy as they were viciously 
attacked and beaten. Before anything else is said, in my view, by an 
elected official, we need to salute these officers and all those who 
work day in and day out alongside them here in the Capitol. For their 
courage, we ought to be internally grateful.
  The insurrection on January 6 was instigated by the former President, 
who wanted to undo the results of a democratic election. Let's also 
understand that, unfortunately, inciting the mob wasn't the end of it. 
Donald Trump didn't exactly walk quietly off into the sunset after the 
Biden inauguration. The effort to undermine our democracy, to end free 
and fair elections in America, goes on as we speak.
  Support for the Big Lie is essentially unchanged from where it was a 
year ago. An awful lot of Republicans who said after January 6 that 
they were done with the former President have cozied back up to him 
just 12 months later. The only reason the mob is not here today is 
Donald Trump didn't summon them back.
  Now, in my view, it is our job to ensure that another attack like 
this, or by any other means, never succeeds. We will have more to say 
about those issues in the days ahead.
  In my view, protecting the vote has got to be step one in protecting 
democracy. A guiding principle for the Senate must be that while 
politics may guide a citizen's vote, it should never determine whether 
they are allowed to vote. To act otherwise would undermine the very 
foundations of a representative democracy, empowering voters with a 
system built on integrity and accountability, a system that promotes 
participation rather than discourages it, a system with a real history 
of bipartisanship.
  I say to the Presiding Officer and colleagues, that is the kind we 
have in my home State of Oregon. Oregon believes so strongly in the 
right to vote that everybody gets a ballot sent straight to their home.
  I am honored to say that I was the first U.S. Senator elected in an 
all vote-by-mail election. Back then, it was Oregon Republicans who 
were pushing to expand vote-by-mail. A Democratic Governor even vetoed 
a vote-by-mail bill in 1995. Right after my election, the Oregon 
Republicans flipped back, and vote-by-mail was suddenly, oh, so bad.
  Everything flipped a few months later, when my friend, Gordon Smith, 
a Republican from eastern Oregon, became the second U.S. Senator to be 
elected by mail. At this point, Oregon voters said: We have just had it 
with everybody looking for some kind of partisan slant here. We just 
think vote-by-mail is a really terrific idea. They went out to vote on 
a ballot measure, and they chose to make Oregon's elections all vote-
by-mail, passing it with 70 percent of the vote in 1998.
  This, in my view, was the culmination of a process that started 40 
years ago with some local elections in Linn County, a small county in 
the western part of our State. It grew and grew from there. Election 
officials learned that when you let people vote at home, participation 
goes up, and the costs go down.
  One of the biggest defenders of Oregon's vote-at-home system was the 
late Dennis Richardson. He was our secretary of state. And by his 
characterization, he was about as conservative--a Republican as you 
could get.
  But when the Trump era came along and people criticized our elections 
and said, ``Oh, there is all this fraud,'' spouting lies about it, the 
late Dennis Richardson stood up and said: I am a conservative 
Republican. They are wrong. They are wrong in what they are saying 
about Oregon.
  He even wrote to Donald Trump in 2017: ``We are confident that voter 
fraud in last November's election did not occur in Oregon.''
  Every election now, young Oregonians watch their parents voting 
around their kitchen table, and it is a real inspiration to the next 
generation to make sure they are committed voters. Voting at home gives 
you the opportunity to be more informed. If there is a particular 
measure, initiative, or a race that you haven't researched, you get 
time to look into the options.
  When you are done, your ballot goes into a security envelope, you 
sign the outside, and off it goes. For me, that is when I head from our 
home in Southeast Portland to the Sellwood branch of the Multnomah 
County Public Library, drop my ballot in the collection box, and head 
home--no long lines, no glitchy touchscreen systems, just hassle-free 
voting.
  A recent analysis in the Election Law Journal said that of all 50 
States, voting is easiest in Oregon. And Senator Klobuchar, I have 
heard colleagues go back and forth to say who is No. 1 in participation 
and who is No. 1 in all of these aspects. And I think, like a number of 
other States, we are all kind of competing for the highest turnout 
rates. We get some of the highest in the country. We have been a leader 
in terms of increasing turnout among Black and Latino voters. Voter 
registration is automatic. It is as easy as a trip to the Department of 
Motor Vehicles.
  For myself--and Senator Klobuchar and I have talked about this so 
often over the years--I have been proposing legislation to have 
universal at-home voting since 2002. That is what my Vote at Home Act 
would do. It would give every American the right to vote the Oregon 
way, the vote that my neighbors and I can do. I will say here on the 
Senate floor that I guarantee that, if you do it the Oregon way, it 
will be a nationwide hit immediately.
  Letting people vote at home is also the best defense against some of 
the really horrendous methods of suppressing the vote; for example, 
what we have seen over the last few years with State and local 
governments shutting polling places, particularly ones that serve Black 
and Latino voters--what unforgivable actions.
  These days, in some areas, Republicans are making it illegal to give 
food and water to people standing in line to vote. It shouldn't be a 
test of physical stamina to be able to vote. Nobody should have to 
wonder if they will be able to vote if they step out of line to go to a 
bathroom. Nobody should have to sacrifice an entire day to participate 
in this incredible, incredible democratic system that is America.

[[Page S77]]

  That is why I proposed the People Over Long Lines Act, called the 
POLL Act. The bill says State governments have to guarantee that 
everybody who votes in person can do so within 30 minutes. Anybody who 
is forced to wait longer has a legal action they can bring. If they sue 
and win, it is 50 bucks for waiting longer than 30 minutes and 50 bucks 
more for every hour after that.
  A free bit of advice to States: Get ready. Make sure people don't 
have to wait in lines. One of the best ways to make sure they don't 
have to wait in lines is to let them vote at home.
  It is not just Oregon, by the way, that votes by mail. And I think, 
Senator Klobuchar, we heard some of our colleagues talk about their 
States and voting by mail. If you need another example, let's think 
about the U.S. Armed Forces. Most servicemembers and their families 
vote by mail in every election. All of the people who wear the uniform 
of the United States can vote by mail in every Federal election. It has 
been that way for decades.
  So the bottom line is that we think it is time to get the Oregon 
system into every nook and cranny in America. We feel that way because 
it works. It raises voter participation, it lowers the cost of running 
elections, it helps voters be more informed, and it is safe and secure. 
And if you are resisting safe and efficient elections with higher voter 
turnout, then you are suppressing democracy in America.
  My home State of Oregon shows the way to preserve America.
  I am going to close my remarks, but I think we will have Senator 
Klobuchar speak for all of us here in a moment. But, in my closing, I 
want to touch just for a moment on my family that I am so proud of.
  My German family fled their homeland, a place where they were deeply 
rooted in that nation's society, as my grandfather was a Member of 
Parliament and served on the Berlin city council.
  My family was forced, as Jews, to flee the fascists who had taken 
over their democracy. They fled to America as the last remaining beacon 
of freedom. With that freedom, my dad chose to serve in our Army, which 
fought against German fascism, and my dad has been recognized for his 
unique contributions.
  We were so thrilled, for example, to have the Senators from Maryland 
talk about the Ritchie Boys. My dad was one of the Ritchie Boys, a 
German kid who taught himself English so he could be out there fighting 
the Nazis. And I remember the good work of the Senators from Maryland 
and how thrilled our family was about that.
  My dad was about the greatest patriot around. He felt he was so lucky 
to be an American, to be in our Army, to stand up for American values. 
And my final remark here today is about my dad. If my dad were alive 
today, he would tell us: Senators, make sure that the light in 
America's beacon of freedom never goes out.
  With that, I yield the floor.
  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Oregon. We 
have had a day of tributes to those who work in the Capitol, those who 
protected us. We have had a day of reflection, and we have had a day of 
hope as we look to the future for our democracy that we hold with such 
care.
  I want to thank the staff that was there that day. And for those of 
you--I am looking at the pages--who are new in the Senate, over the 
next few weeks, it is worth talking to one of the staff members who was 
here that day to hear their stories, to let them reflect on what 
happened to them, whether they were people who were assigned to the 
hallways or the trams or the cafeteria. What happened to them that day? 
The Sergeant at Arms, so many employees there who were here that day 
because this was the day of the peaceful transition of power in this 
Chamber and in the House. The Parliamentarian's office, those that work 
there--that was one of the most difficult moments, to walk into their 
office late in the morning, 4 in the morning. Senator Blunt and myself, 
when this was all done, after we had done our work with Vice President 
Pence and the House, we walked around downstairs. It was eerily quiet. 
There was no one there. And you walked into the rooms, and there was 
glass from people's personal photos in the Parliamentarian's office 
that cracked, things thrown on the floor, their personal belongings.
  And you wondered: Why did they go in that office? Was it just a 
fluke? No, they actually understood where that office was. We later 
found out they knew exactly that that office was in charge of these 
electoral ballots and in charge that day of the proceedings and had a 
special place in our democracy. And they actually knew where that 
office was and deliberately went into that office and invaded that 
office.
  Everyone from the Capitol physician to the floor staffs, both 
Democratic and Republican floor staffs, who were here that day, charged 
with making this day move like it had over and over and over again 
every 4 years when, no matter who wins, we go and we do our work that 
is demanded of us under the Constitution.
  I remember, 4 years before that, my candidate certainly didn't win in 
2016, but we went and we did our job. And I remember at the time, Vice 
President Biden was presiding over that proceeding because it was the 
end of his time as Vice President, just like Vice President Pence was 
involved this last time. And he did his job.
  I think about what the Senators have talked about today, and we have 
heard from so many of our colleagues--Senator Warner and Van Hollen and 
Kaine talking about the National Guards of Virginia and Maryland and 
their police that came in--not planned that this was going to happen 
this day--and came in and helped protect the Capitol and, along with 
National Guards throughout our country, including from my own State of 
Minnesota, then stayed on for weeks and weeks and months and months 
until we could get the security in order in this place.
  The Capitol Police--and so many of my colleagues, including Senator 
Booker, have shared the stories of the Capitol Police that day. And I 
know we have used some famous examples of those officers, but I think 
it is really important to note that every officer did something that 
mattered that day, some act of heroic duty, by doing their jobs.
  We thank the work that has done by the staffs of our Rules Committee, 
who are here today--Senator Blunt's and my staff--as well as Homeland 
Security, with Senators Peters and Portman, who immediately took on the 
task of holding very public hearings about what went wrong on the 
security side and then the decisions to hire new leaders for our 
Sergeant at Arms; with Senator Schumer's work on that, as well as the 
police chief with Chief Manger, who testified at length yesterday in a 
very bipartisan hearing, actually, in the Rules Committee about the 
changes that have been made, the changes when it comes to equipment, as 
we remember that 75 percent of the officers that day were in 
plainclothes and only 25 percent had riot gear--the horrifying image of 
the riot gear locked onto a bus that no one could access while the 
Capitol was being invaded; the lack of a plan, in the words of the 
police officer broadcast on the police radio: Does anyone have a plan? 
Does anyone have a plan?
  And, sadly, the answer was, literally, no. That has now changed, as 
the chief has told us, when events have happened in the last few months 
in the Capitol--plans in place, operational plans, drills that have 
been conducted in this Capitol.
  The lack of resources, which had been demanded in the past, that 
Senator Leahy in the Appropriations Committee and Senator Shelby have 
come to the floor and have worked to get them the resources that they 
need.
  But the challenges that still remain, the vacancies on the police 
force, people working double shifts and overtime and people not being 
able to take their vacation and be with their families because they are 
still working to protect our Capitol. And the police chief's pledge to 
work to recruit 200 or so more officers in just the next year with 
retention benefits and all the work that is being done.
  The other piece of this that we heard a lot about today was 
accountability. We heard from Senator Durbin and members of the 
Judiciary Committee and Senator Booker about the need--and Senator 
Markey--for accountability. And this includes the select committee over 
in the House and the

[[Page S78]]

investigation that they are conducting with not just Democrats but also 
two very strong Republicans who have been willing to basically put 
their careers on the line because they believe so much in this 
democracy that we must get to the bottom of what happened.
  The work going on in the Justice Department, which has now been, as 
of yesterday, as the Attorney General of the United States described to 
us, the biggest investigation in the history of America, because I 
don't think people had envisioned that we would have an attack like 
this, but we did.
  Two hundred forty-four years of democracy--244 years of democracy--
that it is our charge to protect, and that is why you see this 
investigation. That is why you see over 700 people charged. This is why 
you see the Attorney General pledge to follow this to every level and 
to follow the facts to where they go.

  We must remember, in the end, as my colleague from Oregon Senator 
Wyden has addressed, this is not just and was not just an attack on a 
building; it was an attack on our Republic.
  I was looking back at the Inauguration Day and that beautiful moment 
with that blue sky, and there were little snowflakes coming down. I 
remember hearing the beautiful words of Amanda Gorman, in her gold 
coat, that day, with that amazing poem, the singing. I remember Garth 
Brooks singing ``Amazing Grace.'' I looked up at the sky and thought 
that anything and everything is possible and our democracy has 
prevailed.
  I remember the words of Abraham Lincoln, actually, which I quoted in 
my brief speech that day, when he gave his first inaugural address in 
front of this Capitol. The dome was only partially constructed--it was 
braced by ropes of steel back then--and he promised he would finish it. 
He was actually criticized for spending funds during the Civil War on 
the dome, as it was somehow frivolous. To those critics, he replied: 
``If people see the Capitol going on, it is a sign we intend the Union 
shall go on.''
  When we gathered that day on that inaugural stage, there was still 
spray paint on the columns. They actually couldn't get it all out 
because the insurrectionists had first come to that platform because--
just as they knew what was going on in the Parliamentarian's Office, 
they targeted that platform because that is exactly where President 
Biden and Vice President Harris were going to receive their oaths of 
office. There were still traces of spray paint. The windows behind us 
weren't the real windows; they were makeshift windows. But we all 
gathered there. The President-elect, now President, would not have his 
inauguration in a bunker. Senator Blunt and I strongly believed that 
this should be a public event. As we stood out there, ``The Capitol 
shall go on''--that was the message we were sending to the country.
  So what does that mean right now, a year later, this anniversary, 
``The Capitol shall go on''? Yes, it means that we have better 
security, and we do better by our police officers, and we have their 
backs. It means that. We do better by the staff in this great building. 
Yes, it means we have accountability for the people who had the 
audacity to invade this Capitol and take the law into their own hands 
and commit acts of violence. But the other thing it has to mean a year 
later is that we carry on that torch of our democracy, as the Senator 
from Oregon explained, that we make sure our very democracy is 
protected.
  (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO assumed the Chair.)
  That means guaranteeing that people have the right to vote.
  What was not accomplished that day with the bear spray and the 
bayonets and the flagpoles sadly carried on because these bills that 
have been introduced in so many States and passed across the country--
over 400 of them passed in many, many States across the country or 
proposed, seriously proposed, in others--bring us backwards. It 
basically says: You know what. Democracy--the people who propose these 
bills--is not about who votes for whom, regardless of who wins; it is 
about us choosing our voters and deciding haves and have-nots and who 
is going to be able to vote and who isn't going to be able to vote.
  When you think about what the people of this country will do to 
preserve that right to vote--I think about those people in Wisconsin 
with homemade masks and garbage bags, standing in the pouring rain at 
the beginning of the pandemic just to exercise their right to vote.
  I think about the veteran I met when we did our field hearing with 
Senators Warnock and Ossoff and Senators Merkley and Padilla down in 
Atlanta. This veteran told us that he had signed up to serve our 
country, and there wasn't a waiting line, but when he went to exercise 
his right to vote, he had to wait hours and hours--4, 5 hours--in line 
in the hot Sun just to exercise his right to vote. He told the stories 
of older people who had left because they couldn't stand the heat, they 
couldn't stand out there anymore.
  That is not what our democracy is supposed to look like. It is not 
supposed to look like one ballot box in the entire county of Harris 
County, which includes Houston in Texas, over 5 million people with one 
ballot drop-off box. That is not our democracy.
  But the American people in that 2020 election said: You know what. No 
matter what you do to us, we are going to go vote. And they voted in 
droves. They voted more votes than in the history of America. Part of 
that was because, because of the pandemic, changes were made to the 
law, including that some States took away ridiculous requirements that 
you have to get a notary public. Think about it--in the middle of a 
pandemic.
  Right now, by the way, South Carolina has put this law back into 
effect. To get your mail-in ballot because you can't go vote in person 
because you have COVID, you have to have a notary public. There are 
stories reported in the news of people having notary publics, through 
the glass windows of hospitals, sign off on the application of ballots. 
All of that is designed, in the words of Reverend Warnock, so that some 
people don't allow some people to vote. That is what that is about.
  So it is on us right now to carry on the democracy. And that feeling 
we had when the leaders of both parties all stood on that inaugural 
stage or when we took that last walk, Senator Blunt and Vice President 
Pence and I and the two young women with the mahogany box with the last 
of the electoral ballots--that feeling was a good one, and it was a 
celebration of joy for our country and the peaceful transition of 
power.
  As pointed out in our speeches on the Senate floor right after the 
insurrection--I remember Senator Shaheen standing right there talking 
about how the world is watching our democracy. Well, this is another 
moment. The world is watching as we see dictators coming into power in 
other countries around the world, as we see the former President still 
out there rallying the troops around this Big Lie that he somehow won 
the election when every single local election official in this country 
knows that is not true. This is our moment to stand up to that because 
the people are watching. Our kids are watching. And the democracy 
stands in the breach. This is our moment. We must pass the Freedom to 
Vote Act, and we must uphold our democracy.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Van Hollen). The Senator from Nevada is 
recognized.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 25 (Tuesday, February 8, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S551-S553]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                           U.S. Supreme Court

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I am sure that you, more than most Members 
of the Senate, remember our debate a few weeks ago on the Voting Rights 
Act. I remember your statement on the floor. It was powerful and really 
spoke to the truth of why we were meeting and debating this issue.
  We realize that, sadly, since the Civil War, when African Americans 
were finally given the right to vote, this has been a battle every year 
since. And yesterday, the Supreme Court decision tells us that we still 
have a battle to fight when it comes to voting rights in America.
  By a 5-to-4 vote yesterday, the Supreme Court's conservative majority 
allowed Alabama lawmakers to move forward with a congressional 
districting map that diminishes the power of Black voters in a State 
where Black Americans account for more than 25 percent of the 
population.
  You see, this case had been considered by a three-judge district 
court panel in Alabama, and they ruled in a unanimous decision that the 
map likely violated the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and they ruled that 
we should block that map because it would violate the right to vote of 
African Americans.

  I might say, for the record, this three-judge panel, two of the three 
judges were appointed by former President Trump, and yet they came to 
that conclusion. So the Supreme Court had a decision of whether to go 
along with this three-judge panel and stop the implementation of this 
map until they

[[Page S552]]

could have a full hearing on the subject or allow them to go forward. 
And, sadly, by a 5-to-4-vote, the Supreme Court's conservative majority 
stayed a lower court's decision, where they ruled unanimously that the 
district map was discriminatory.
  The Supreme Court did not issue a well-reasoned decision; they issued 
basically no reason. They did so on what is known as the shadow docket. 
We are seeing it more and more by this Court--no explanation, no full 
briefing, no signed opinion for the majority. What we have was a scant 
reaction by the Court.
  But I do want to note that Justice Kagan wrote that that decision by 
the Supreme Court in favor of allowing this Alabama map to go forward 
``does a disservice to the District Court, which meticulously applied 
this Court's longstanding voting-rights precedent.'' She went on to 
note that ``most of all, it does a disservice to the Black people of 
Alabama who under that precedent have had their electoral power 
diminished in violation of the law this Court once knew to buttress all 
of American democracy.''
  Yesterday's decision is the latest example of the Supreme Court 
hacking away the protections of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, one of 
the most important civil rights laws in our history--a law singularly 
responsible for decades of progress in minority representation in 
public office.
  As a result of these decisions, legal protections for voters of color 
throughout the country are being systematically dismantled by the 
Republican Party through State legislatures and, sadly, by our Federal 
courts.
  So now what do we do? Well, Congress must act. We must restore the 
Voting Rights Act to its full power and potential, and we can do that 
by enacting the John R. Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.
  This legislation would strengthen and modernize the Voting Rights 
Act's protections, including by requiring Supreme Court Justices to 
actually explain their reasoning behind their decisions when they 
overturn a lower court's decision on a voting rights case. Is that too 
much to ask, that the Supreme Court explain to the American people why 
they are overruling a lower court's decision which says Americans are 
being discriminated against when it comes to their right to vote? I 
don't think the Supreme Court is that busy that it can't tell the 
American people its logic behind these decisions.
  Every day, we are seeing the consequences of this Senate's failure 
just a few weeks ago to protect the right to vote. Mr. President, you 
and I agree; we cannot wait any longer.


                               January 6

  Mr. President, let me address a related topic: 2022 is an election 
year. We know that well. And over the next 8 months, both parties will 
have a chance to make our case to the American people for the November 
election, to engage in spirited, public debate about the issues that 
matter: the pandemic, the economy, and the challenges facing our 
country.
  But what happened last week in Salt Lake City, UT, is incredible. The 
Republican Party made its opening move in this year's election. Instead 
of offering a vision for the future of America, the Republican Party 
leaders meeting in Utah chose to attack democracy itself.
  On Friday, the Republican National Committee declared that the 
January 6, 2021, insurrection was a form of ``legitimate political 
discourse.'' This outrageous declaration, printed under the official 
letterhead of the Republican National Committee, is the saddest 
commentary on what Donald Trump and his acolytes have done to a great 
political party, the party of Abraham Lincoln.
  The violence that we personally witnessed in this Chamber on January 
6, 2021, was deadly, seditious, and un-American--far from legitimate. 
Is that what we call the worst assault on the Capitol since the War of 
1812? Was it legitimate political discourse when the violent mob beat 
police officers with metal poles and assaulted them with bear 
spray? Was it political discourse that contributed to the death of five 
police officers who confronted that mob? Was it just merely political 
discourse when a defeated, embittered former President incited that mob 
to attack this Capitol Building and do its best to overturn the results 
of a free election, which he lost? No. It was an incitement to violence 
and an attack on our democracy.

  Let's be clear: The Republican Party's whitewashing of the 
insurrection isn't just a pathetic capitulation to Donald Trump and his 
Big Lie; it is a dangerous revelation of the mindset of the leadership 
of America's Republican Party. By legitimizing the insurrection, 
Republican Party leaders are exploring the use of violence and saying 
it is perfectly acceptable, it is legitimate when it comes to the 
political goals.
  This is how democracies die.
  Last year, the intelligence community warned that ``narratives of 
fraud in the recent general election . . . will almost certainly spur 
some [domestic violent extremists] to try to engage in violence.'' That 
came from our intelligence community. This is not a hypothetical.
  Over the past year, we have seen how the Big Lie, promulgated by the 
former, defeated President of the United States, has inspired his 
supporters to commit and threaten violent acts.
  On Friday--the same day that the Republican Party declared that the 
insurrectionist mob was legitimate political discourse--a Texas man 
appeared for his first day in court. That man is facing Federal charges 
for threatening to kill public officials in the home State of the 
Presiding Officer, the State of Georgia.
  What is exactly alleged to have happened? Well, the day before the 
January 6 insurrection, this man posted a message on the website 
Craigslist calling for the murder of three election officials in 
Georgia. He wrote: ``It's our duty as American Patriots to put an end 
to the lives of these traitors and to take back our country by force. 
We can no longer wait on the corrupt law enforcement and the corrupt 
courts. If we want our country back we have to exterminate these 
people.''
  The case against this man is the first case that has been brought 
forward by the Justice Department's Election Threats Task Force, which 
the Department established last June in response to the burgeoning 
threats of violence against election officials. But it is going to be 
far from the last case, unfortunately. Right now, the Department of 
Justice is investigating dozens of similar cases.
  And less than 1 week after charging this Texas defendant, the 
Department also charged a man in Nevada who told an election worker 
that she was going to ``die'' because she played a part in ``stealing'' 
the 2020 election from Donald Trump. Thankfully, that election worker 
was not physically harmed, but she was shaken and disturbed by that 
declaration.
  She is not alone. Last April, the Brennan Center published a report 
finding that nearly one in five election officials in America had 
received threats because of their roles in the 2020 election. One in 
three of these election officials says they worry for their safety 
because of the rising tide of political violence. Political violence. 
And the Republican National Committee describes it as ``legitimate 
political discourse.''
  Is this the cost of participating in a democracy in Mr. Trump's 
vision of America? Since the 2020 election, the former President and 
his supporters have latched on to the Big Lie to discredit American 
democracy and the decision of American voters and to go after those who 
work in it, like election workers.
  But this is not the first time a malicious lie has been used to 
foment distrust, disdain, and even hatred for America's public 
servants. It was 72 years ago this week that Wisconsin Senator Joseph 
McCarthy delivered his infamous ``Enemies from Within'' speech in 
Wheeling, WV. In that speech, Senator McCarthy pulled a sheet of paper 
out of his pocket, held it up to the crowd, and claimed he had a list 
of more than 50 names of Communist agents who had infiltrated our 
government. These scurrilous accusations by Senator McCarthy made 
headlines and provoked nationwide hysteria. Rumors abounded about card-
carrying Communists working within our government.
  And over the next 4 years, Senator McCarthy led a personal witch hunt

[[Page S553]]

against public servants, journalists, members of the military, and 
average citizens. He destroyed lives in the process. But he never 
revealed his list of 57 names or any other credible evidence for his 
claims. Nonetheless, Senator Joe McCarthy discredited and defamed 
anyone standing in his way. He would accuse his opponents of being 
Communists or Communist sympathizers if they publicly disagreed with 
him.
  With rare and notable exceptions--and one of them Senator Margaret 
Chase Smith, Republican Senator of Maine, and a few others--no one had 
the courage to question Joe McCarthy or challenge his wild allegations. 
Politicians were too afraid that he would turn on them next, so they 
remained quiet.

  And in the absence of opposition, he assumed even greater power--
until 1954, when some courageous members of Senator McCarthy's own 
political party, the Republican Party, joined together with the 
Democrats in the Senate. They voted to condemn Senator McCarthy and the 
lies that had fueled his witch hunt. They stood in a bipartisan 
majority to do it. With that vote, Senator Joseph McCarthy's reign of 
terror was brought to an end. The press began to ignore him, and the 
public had had their fill.
  What will it take for our Republican colleagues today to say that 
they are done with the Big Lie of Trumpism? What will it take for them 
to reject it and renounce the normalization of political violence? What 
will it take for Republicans to admit that January 6 was a deadly 
insurrection, not a ``legitimate political discourse''?
  Americans of conscience of both political parties and Independents as 
well need to unite in support of the truth. That doesn't mean we are 
going to agree on every issue. On the contrary, real debate is the 
lifeblood of our democracy. But we have to work from a shared set of 
facts and reality--like the fact that President Biden actually won the 
2020 election and there was no evidence of widespread voter fraud.
  I want to commend my Republican colleagues who have been willing to 
speak the truth in the last few days. I know it can't be easy.
  Over the weekend, Senator Mitt Romney, Senator Bill Cassidy, and 
Senator Lisa Murkowski spoke out against the Republican National 
Committee's decision to censure Congresswoman Liz Cheney and 
Congressman Adam Kinzinger of Illinois for committing the unforgivable 
sin of investigating the violent assault against American democracy. 
Unfortunately, they are a small but courageous minority. The vast 
majority of my Republican colleagues remain silent while their party 
leaders declare January 6 legitimate.
  And on Friday, former Vice President Pence publicly stated: 
``President Trump is wrong . . . Under the Constitution, I had no right 
to change the outcome of our election.''
  That simple, declarative statement of truth--that the Vice President 
cannot singlehandedly overrule the will of the American people--is 
welcomed, but the fact that it drew outrage from former President Trump 
and his supporters is a sad reflection on the reality of today's 
Republican Party.
  If the events leading up to January 6 taught us anything, it is that 
aspiring authoritarians like Donald Trump will toss aside longstanding 
laws and values to cling to power. That is why for the past several 
months, a bipartisan group of Senators have been discussing a proposal 
to modernize the Electoral Count Act, an obscure law that was at the 
heart of former President Trump's efforts to overturn the election. I 
have been working on this effort on our side with Senators King and 
Klobuchar, and there is a bipartisan effort, on the same matter, taking 
place as well.
  By updating the Electoral Count Act, we can make clear that the Vice 
President does not have the power to reject a State's lawfully 
appointed electors and overturn the results of an election. That is 
important, and I believe it is a promising sign that Democrats and 
Republicans are going to join together in discussion of finally 
rewriting this ancient law.
  But I also want to be honest about the scope of threats facing our 
American democracy. At a moment when too many Republican Party leaders 
are legitimizing the January 6 insurrection and Republican State 
legislators are erecting new barriers to the ballot box, particularly 
for African Americans, we must have the courage to restore the Voting 
Rights Act. And we need to come together across party lines to defend 
our democracy, condemn violence, and to live by the rule of law, not 
the rule of the mob.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Padilla). The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

[House Report 117-544]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


117th Congress    }                                    {        Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session       }                                    {       117-544

======================================================================

 
   RESOLUTION OF INQUIRY REQUESTING THE PRESIDENT AND DIRECTING THE 
 ATTORNEY GENERAL TO TRANSMIT, RESPECTIVELY, CERTAIN DOCUMENTS TO THE 
             HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES RELATING TO RAY EPPS

                                _______
                                

  October 14, 2022.--Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. Nadler, from the Committee on the Judiciary, submitted the 
                               following

                             ADVERSE REPORT

                             together with

                             MINORITY VIEWS

                      [To accompany H. Res. 1356]

    The Committee on the Judiciary, to whom was referred the 
resolution (H. Res. 1356) of inquiry requesting the President 
and directing the Attorney General to transmit, respectively, 
certain documents to the House of Representatives relating to 
Ray Epps, having considered the same, report unfavorably 
thereon with an amendment and recommend that the resolution not 
be agreed to.

                                CONTENTS

                                                                   Page
Purpose and Summary..............................................     2
Background and Need for the Legislation..........................     2
Hearings.........................................................     4
Committee Consideration..........................................     4
Committee Votes..................................................     4
Committee Oversight Findings.....................................     6
Committee Estimate of Budgetary Effects..........................     6
New Budget Authority and Congressional Budget Office Cost 
  Estimate.......................................................     6
Duplication of Federal Programs..................................     6
Performance Goals and Objectives.................................     6
Advisory on Earmarks.............................................     6
Section-by-Section Analysis......................................     6
Minority Views...................................................     6

  Strike all that follows after the resolving clause and insert 
the following:

  That President Joseph R. Biden is requested, and Attorney General 
Merrick B. Garland are directed, to transmit, respectively, to the 
House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of the 
adoption of this resolution, copies of all documents, memoranda, 
advisory legal opinions, notes from meetings, audio recordings, records 
(including telephone and electronic mail records), correspondence, and 
other communications, or any portion of any such communications, to the 
extent that any such one or more items are within the possession of 
President Joseph R. Biden or Attorney General Merrick B. Garland, 
respectively, and refer to Ray Epps.

                          Purpose and Summary

    H. Res. 1356 is a non-binding resolution of inquiry that 
requests President Joe Biden and directs Attorney General 
Merrick Garland to provide certain documents to the House of 
Representatives relating to Ray Epps.

                Background and Need for the Legislation

    Resolutions of inquiry, if properly drafted, are given 
privileged parliamentary status in the House. This means that, 
under certain circumstances, a resolution of inquiry can be 
considered on the House floor even if the committee to which it 
was referred has not ordered the resolution reported and the 
majority party's leadership has not scheduled it for 
consideration. Clause 7 of rule XIII of the Rules of the House 
of Representatives requires the committee to which the 
resolution is referred to act on the resolution within 14 
legislative days, or a motion to discharge the committee from 
consideration is considered privileged on the floor of the 
House. In calculating the days available for committee 
consideration, the day of introduction and the day of discharge 
are not counted.\1\ The 117th Congress operated under temporary 
procedures ``that effectively `turned off' the 14-day 
deadline'' for resolutions of inquiry until July 19, 2022.\2\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\Wm. Holmes Brown, et al., House Practice: A Guide to the Rules, 
Precedents, and Procedures of the House ch. 49, Sec. 6, p. 834 (2011).
    \2\Christopher M. Davis, Resolutions of Inquiry in the House, Cong. 
Rsch. Serv. 1 (Jul. 21, 2022), https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/
pdf/IN/IN10661/4.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Under the Rules and precedents of the House, a resolution 
of inquiry is a means by which the House requests information 
from the President of the United States or the head of one of 
the executive departments. According to Deschler's Precedents, 
it is a ``simple resolution making a direct request or demand 
of the President or the head of an executive department to 
furnish the House of Representatives with specific factual 
information in the possession of the executive branch.''\3\ 
Such resolutions must ask for facts, documents, or specific 
information; they may not be used to request an opinion or 
require an investigation.\4\ Resolutions of inquiry are not 
akin to subpoenas; they have no legal force and thus compliance 
by the Executive Branch with the House's request for 
information is purely voluntary.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \3\7 Deschler's Precedents of the United States House of 
Representatives, H. Doc. No. 94-661, 94th Cong., 2d Sess., ch. 24, 
Sec.  8.
    \4\A resolution that seeks more than factual information does not 
enjoy privileged status. Brown, supra note 1, at 833-34.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    According to a study conducted by the Congressional 
Research Service (CRS), between 1947 and 2017, 313 resolutions 
of inquiry were introduced in the House.\5\ Within this period, 
CRS found that ``two periods in particular, 1971-1975 and 2003-
2006, saw the highest levels of activity on resolutions of 
inquiry'' and that ``the Committees on Armed Services, Foreign 
Affairs, and the Judiciary have received the largest share of 
references.''\6\ CRS further found that ``in recent Congresses, 
such resolutions have overwhelmingly become a tool of the 
minority party in the House.''\7\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \5\Christopher M. Davis, Resolutions of Inquiry: An Analysis of 
Their Use in the House, 1947-2017, Cong. Rsch. Serv. R40879, at i (Nov. 
9, 2017), https://sgp.fas.org/crs/secrecy/R40879.pdf.
    \6\Id.
    \7\Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    A Committee has a number of choices after a resolution of 
inquiry is referred to it. It may vote on the resolution up or 
down as introduced or it may amend it, and it may report the 
resolution favorably, unfavorably, or with no recommendation. 
The fact that a committee reports a resolution of inquiry 
adversely does not necessarily mean that the committee opposes 
looking into the matter. In the past, resolutions of inquiry 
have frequently been reported adversely for several reasons. 
The two most common reasons are substantial compliance and 
competing investigations.
    H. Res. 1356 was introduced by Representative Paul Gosar 
(R-AZ) on September 15, 2022. The resolution seeks information 
related to Ray Epps in the possession of the President and the 
Attorney General.
    The individual that is the focus of this resolution of 
inquiry is the subject of a baseless conspiracy theory that 
alleges he was an FBI plant in the crowd on January 6, 2021, 
who instigated the assault on the U.S. Capitol.\8\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \8\Alan Feuer, A Trump Backer's Downfall as the Target of a Jan. 6 
Conspiracy Theory, New York Times (Jul. 13, 2022).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ray Epps was a Donald Trump supporter who traveled from 
Arizona to Washington, D.C. to participate in the January 6th 
rally. Right-wing message boards, conservative media, former 
President Trump, and some Members of Congress have spread an 
alternative narrative alleging that Mr. Epps, acting on behalf 
of the government, was responsible for the insurrection by 
egging on otherwise peaceful Trump supporters.\9\ As a result 
of this misinformation, Mr. Epps has received death threats, 
has lost his business, and has been forced to move away from 
his home in Arizona.\10\ This resolution, rather than seeking 
information that would move the January 6th investigation 
forward, instead would perpetuate this conspiracy theory and 
bring further harm to Mr. Epps.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \9\Id.
    \10\Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In addition to serving as an opportunity to further spread 
misinformation, this resolution of inquiry is a waste of this 
Committee's valuable time and resources. The January 6th 
Committee interviewed Mr. Epps twice in connection with its 
overall investigation of the insurrection.\11\ A Republican on 
that Committee, Representative Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) said, 
``The narrative on Jan. 6 has been that it's first antifa, or 
patriots who love their country, maybe crisis actors, def false 
flag operatives, or now FBI agents . . . Take your pick. Truth 
is they were rioters incited by lies. And RAY is no fed. Just 
another misled man.''\12\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \11\Id.
    \12\David Knowles, ``Rep. Kinzinger looks to put the Ray Epps 
conspiracy theory to bed once and for all,'' Yahoo (Jan. 12, 2022).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    By focusing the narrative on a disproven conspiracy theory, 
Donald Trump, some Republicans in Congress, and conservative 
media personalities are refocusing the conversation around 
January 6th on a single man, supposedly representing the 
government, and away from the mistakes of Republicans who 
spurred the attack. The thesis that the insurrection was a 
protest that got out of control--one that could be influenced 
by a single man--is not backed up by the facts.
    The insurrectionists at the Capitol on January 6th came 
prepared for an attack. The insurrection was well documented, 
both in media coverage and through participants' cell phone 
recordings. These videos clearly show the crowd outside the 
Capitol was armed and prepared to engage in violence. 
Furthermore, the January 6th Committee has discovered that far-
right extremist members of the Oath Keepers stashed weapons 
around the DC area in advance of the march on the Capitol.\13\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \13\Alexander Mallin and Will Steakin, ``Oath Keepers stashed 
weapons at hotel for potential Jan. 6 violence, prosecutors indicate,'' 
ABCNews (Apr. 13, 2022).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Conspiracy theories like the one at the heart of H. Res. 
1356 are designed to excuse people who break the law, just 
because they broke the law in support of former President 
Donald Trump. Many of the over-390 people who have pleaded 
guilty to their role in the insurrection have cited loyalty to 
Donald Trump as the driving reason behind the attack on the 
Capitol.\14\ These individuals believed they were acting on 
behalf of Donald Trump--not Ray Epps. The resolution also keeps 
the American public from getting to the truth by diverting 
focus away from the fact-finders on the January 6th Committee 
and potentially interfering with ongoing criminal 
investigations.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \14\Madison Hall, ``396 rioters have pleaded guilty for their role 
in the Capitol insurrection so far. This table is tracking them all,'' 
Yahoo (Sep. 21, 2022).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The Judiciary Committee will investigate any credible 
allegations of misconduct by the Executive Branch to the extent 
such allegations fall within this Committee's jurisdiction. 
However, the Committee will not do so through politically 
charged resolutions of inquiry that could jeopardize the 
integrity of ongoing investigations. The Judiciary Committee 
and the House overall should not needlessly request information 
that furthers conspiracy theories and moves us away from the 
truth.

                                Hearings

    The Committee on the Judiciary held no hearings on H. Res. 
1356.

                        Committee Consideration

    On September 21, 2022, the Committee met in open session 
and ordered the resolution, H. Res. 1356, unfavorably reported 
with an amendment by a rollcall vote of 22 to 13, a quorum 
being present.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of House rule XIII, the 
following rollcall vote occurred during the Committee's 
consideration of H. Res. 1356:
    1. A motion to report H. Res. 1356 unfavorably passed by a 
rollcall vote of 23 to 13. The vote was as follows:

[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

                      Committee Oversight Findings

    In compliance with clause 3(c)(1) of House rule XIII, the 
Committee advises that the findings and recommendations of the 
Committee, based on oversight activities under clause 2(b)(1) 
of House rule X, are incorporated in the descriptive portions 
of this report.

                Committee Estimate of Budgetary Effects

    Pursuant to clause 3(d)(1) of House rule XIII, the 
Committee adopts as its own the cost estimate prepared by the 
Director of the Congressional Budget Office pursuant to section 
402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

   New Budget Authority and Congressional Budget Office Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(2) of House rule XIII and section 
308(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, and pursuant to 
clause 3(c)(3) of House rule XIII and section 402 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the Committee has requested 
by not received from the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office a budgetary analysis and a cost estimate of this 
resolution.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(5) of House rule XIII, no provision 
of H. Res. 1356 establishes or reauthorizes a program of the 
federal government known to be duplicative of another federal 
program.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    The Committee states that pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of 
House rule XIII, H. Res. 1356 requests President Biden and 
directs Attorney General Garland to transmit to the House of 
Representatives documents relating to Ray Epps.

                          Advisory on Earmarks

    In accordance with clause 9 of House rule XXI, H. Res. 1356 
does not contain any congressional earmarks, limited tax 
benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in clause 9(e), 
9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI.

                      Section-by-Section Analysis

    The following discussion describes the resolution as 
reported by the Committee.
    H. Res. 1356, a non-binding resolution of inquiry, requests 
President Joe Biden and directs Attorney General Merrick 
Garland to transmit to the House of Representatives documents 
relating to Ray Epps.

                             Minority Views

    H. Res. 1356 requests the President and directs the 
Attorney General, respectively, to provide the House of 
Representatives with documents and communications in their 
possession referring to Ray Epps.
    Questions remain concerning Ray Epps's actions prior to the 
events at the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021. In a video taken 
on January 5, Epps appeared to encourage people to go into the 
Capitol the following day, shouting, ``We need to go into the 
Capitol'' and ``I'm probably going to go to jail for it, OK? 
Tomorrow, we need to go into the Capitol.''\1\ The video also 
shows the crowd around Epps chanting, ``fed''--implying that 
the crowd believed Epps was a federal agent or was working on 
behalf of a federal law-enforcement agency. There are also 
videos of Epps on January 6, 2021, standing outside the Capitol 
speaking with other protestors just before the crowd began to 
move past the barricades and towards the Capitol.\2\ Epps was 
reportedly on the FBI's Most Wanted list in connection with the 
events of January 6 but was removed from the list on July 1, 
2021, for unknown reasons.\3\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\Miss N0b0dy (@MissN0b0dy1), Twitter, (Jan. 5, 2021, 10:31 PM), 
https://twitter.com/MissN0b0dy1/status/1346660587636477954.
    \2\Anne Ryman, Arizona man went to Washington day of Capitol riot, 
appears to talk about plans in video, AZ Central (Jan. 11, 2021), 
https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/local/arizona/2021/01/11/fbi-
capitol-investigation-arizona-trump-supporter/6624406002/.
    \3\Tim Hains, Will Cain: So Where Has January 6 ``FBI Most Wanted'' 
Ray Epps Been? ``The Daily Mail'' Found Him On His Ranch In Arizona, 
RealClear Politics (Dec. 29, 2021), https://www.realclearpolitics.com/
video/2021/12/29/will_cain_so_where_has_january_ 6_fbi_most_wanted_ 
ray_epps_ been_the_daily_mail_found_ him_on_his_ranch_in_arizona.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In January 2021, a reporter spoke with Epps, who admitted 
to being in Washington, D.C. during the relevant period.\4\ 
When the reporter asked Epps whether he made the comment of 
``we need to go into the Capitol,'' Epps replied, ``The only 
thing that meant is we would go in the doors like everyone 
else. It was totally, totally wrong the way they went in.''\5\ 
Epps denied doing anything wrong. Several months later, 
reporters from the Daily Mail visited Epps on his property 
outside in Arizona and Epps told the reporters to leave.\6\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \4\Ryan, supra note 2.
    \5\Id.
    \6\Hains, supra note 3.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Representative Thomas Massie (R-KY) and Senator Ted Cruz 
(R-TX) have asked Biden Administration officials whether there 
were federal agents or confidential informants involved in the 
events surrounding January 6, 2021. During a House Judiciary 
Committee hearing on October 21, 2021, Rep. Massie asked 
Attorney General Merrick Garland: ``Can you tell us--without 
talking about particular incidents or particular videos--how 
many agents or assets of the federal government were present on 
January 6? Whether they agitated to go into the Capitol and if 
any of them did?''\7\ In response, Attorney General Garland 
stated, ``I'm not going to comment on an investigation that's 
ongoing.''\8\ During a hearing of the Senate Judiciary 
Committee on January 11, 2022, Senator Ted Cruz asked then-FBI 
Assistant Executive Director Jill Sanborn: ``Did federal agents 
or those in service of federal agents actively encourage 
violent and criminal conduct on Jan. 6?''\9\ In response, 
Sanborn testified, ``Not to my knowledge, sir.''\10\ Senator 
Cruz then asked, ``Was Ray Epps a fed?'' and Sanborn responded 
by saying, ``Sir, I cannot answer that question.''\11\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \7\Oversight of the Department of Justice, Hearing Before the H. 
Comm. on the Judiciary, 117th Cong. (2021); Anne Ryman, Arizona man who 
was at U.S. Capitol Jan. 6 featured in video during House hearing with 
AG Merrick Garland, AZ Central (Oct. 22, 2021), https://
www.azcentral.com/story/news/local/arizona/2021/10/22/arizona-man-
capitol-riot-house-hearings-thomas-massie-merrick-garland/6135771001/.
    \8\Id.
    \9\The Domestic Terrorism Threat One Year After January 6, Hearing 
Before the S. Comm. on the Judiciary, 117th Cong. (2022); Hannah 
Grossman, Cruz slams `arrogance' of FBI to stonewall his Jan. 6 
questions: `Did they actively solicit illegal conduct?', Fox News (Jan. 
12, 2022), https://www.foxnews.com/media/ted-cruz-fbi-arrogance-
january-6.
    \10\Oversight of the Department of Justice, supra note 7.
    \11\Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    On January 11, 2022, the Democrat-run January 6th Select 
Committee issued a statement confirming that Epps had testified 
to the committee. The statement read, ``The Select Committee is 
aware of unsupported claims that Ray Epps was an FBI informant 
based on the fact that he was on the FBI Wanted list and then 
was removed from that list without being charged. The Select 
Committee has interviewed Mr. Epps. Mr. Epps informed us that 
he was not employed by, working with, or acting at the 
direction of any law enforcement agency on January 5th or 6th 
or at any other time, and that he has never been an informant 
for the FBI or any other law enforcement agency.''\12\ 
According to the Washington Examiner, Chairman Bennie Thompson 
said that the Select Committee will release the Epps' interview 
transcript ``at some point.''\13\ To date, the January 6th 
Select Committee has not publicly released the transcript.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \12\Emily Brooks, Jan. 6 committee: Provocateur Ray Epps not FBI 
informant or agent, Wash. Examiner (Jan. 11, 2022), https://
www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/jan-6-committee-provocateur-ray-epps-
not-fbi-informant-or-agent.
    \13\Emily Brooks, Ray Epps interview transcript with Jan. 6 panel 
to be public `at some point', Wash. Examiner (Jan. 21, 2022), https://
www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/ray-epps-interview-transcript-with-jan-
6-panel-to-be-public-at-some-point.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    On September 21, 2022, the Committee considered H. Res. 
1356 at a business meeting. Democrats refused to acknowledge 
the legitimate questions posed by Republican members about Ray 
Epps and the potential involvement of federal assets 
surrounding the events of January 6, 2021. Rather than 
receiving basic facts and information, Democrats voted to 
report H. Res. 1356 unfavorably to the House.
                                                Jim Jordan,
                                                    Ranking Member.

                                  [all]
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 188 (Monday, December 5, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Page S6950]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                            President Trump

  Mr. President, finally, Donald Trump cannot seem to go a week without 
doing or saying something disgusting, dishonorable, and, frankly, 
disqualifying for high office.
  Two weeks ago, it was a dinner with a pair of loathsome anti-Semites, 
which to this day, he has not denounced. He says: Well, I didn't know 
that one of these men, Fuentes, was coming. He still hasn't denounced 
him now that he knows he was there.
  On Friday, he took his vile rhetoric to a new and horrible nadir when 
he called for the ``termination'' of the Constitution of the United 
States because he lost the 2022 election.
  Aside from the pettiness and the ego of that, it is as if Donald 
Trump is on a mission to find new ways to sink lower and lower to the 
detriment of America. How can anyone hope to take the Presidential oath 
of office to preserve and protect the Constitution while simultaneously 
calling for the Constitution's termination? It is wholly disqualifying 
on its face.
  And now that Donald Trump is being rightfully criticized for 
attacking the Constitution, his response is to double down and deny he 
ever did so in the first place rather than have the decency to own up 
to it.
  I am glad some Republicans seem increasingly willing to condemn 
Trump's lunacy, but we need more voices filling the silence. We need 
nothing less than an avalanche of condemnation from Republicans; but, 
sadly, all we have gotten so far are just a few flurries here and 
there.
  Republicans need to speak up, because if America doesn't extricate 
itself from Donald Trump and his MAGA ideology, it could undercut our 
American way of life. This isn't a partisan scuffle. When a former 
President calls for the termination of the U.S. Constitution, there can 
be no silence, no equivocation--nothing less than total and fierce 
condemnation.
  So to my Republican colleagues, enough is enough. Reject MAGA, reject 
Trump, condemn these awful attacks on the U.S. Constitution.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Illinois.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 3 (Wednesday, January 5, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S38-S43]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                     EXECUTIVE CALENDAR--Continued

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The junior Senator from Florida.


                   Unanimous Consent Request--S. 2895

  Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Madam President, last month I was proud to see 
the Senate come together in a bipartisan effort and pass a 
Congressional Review Act measure to overturn President Biden's 
unconstitutional Federal vaccine mandate on private businesses. In that 
bipartisan vote, a majority of U.S. Senators sent a clear message that 
these job-killing mandates are wrong and have no place in our country's 
fight against COVID-19.
  Then, just days after Christmas, President Biden said something very 
interesting. While he was talking with Governors about the COVID-19 
pandemic, he admitted:

       Look, there is no Federal solution. This gets solved at a 
     State level.

  This is President Biden's message: States should be leading the 
effort. Now, that doesn't mean there isn't a role for the Federal 
Government. But what we have seen from the Biden administration is no 
progress, just worsening cases, and the horrible job-killing 
consequences of his unconstitutional mandates on private businesses.
  I want to be clear: His unconstitutional mandates are job killers. 
Back in October, the Federal Reserve reported that vaccine mandates 
were widely cited by businesses as a reason for low labor supply and 
hiring and retention issues. It was a finding my Republican colleagues 
and I have been warning about for months before their report, and it is 
directly tied to inflation.
  When the labor supply is reduced, prices go up, and families, 
especially those on low and fixed incomes, suffer. Restaurants, grocery 
stores, gas stations, and small businesses all have to charge more.
  I heard about a restaurant owner in St. Petersburg, FL, who had to 
take certain items off the menu because they simply cost too much, and 
he can't pass the cost on to his customers. He has even seen the price 
of oil and to-go boxes more than double.
  I talked to an operator of a food bank in Osceola County, FL. She 
used to see 15 families each day, and now she is seeing upward of 70 
families. Food prices have gone through the roof. It is more expensive 
for her to get food to give to people hurting at the very time demand 
is up. This is the reality for families and small businesses all across 
America, and vaccine mandates do nothing but make these problems even 
worse.
  I can't imagine why, just when our country is working to get back on 
its feet, the President of the United States would be pushing policies 
that kill jobs, but that is exactly what he is doing. Now lockdown-
loving Dr. Fauci and President Biden want to double down on their 
insane mandates and are considering forcing every American who wants to 
fly to show proof of vaccine before boarding an airplane. This is just 
another Orwellian response from the Biden administration and radical 
Democrats that does nothing to protect the American people.
  Providing information about the virus, providing tests, supporting 
vaccine and therapy developments, and getting the economy back on track 
should be the only role of the Federal Government in this pandemic.
  Congress has to take a stand and protect the American people from 
these

[[Page S39]]

communist China-style policies that are meant to divide us. That is why 
a few months ago, I introduced the Prevent Unconstitutional Vaccine 
Mandates for Interstate Commerce Act. The bill would prevent Federal 
Agencies, like the Department of Transportation and Department of 
Commerce, from requiring proof of vaccination for companies trying to 
do business across State lines.
  Importantly, it would block the Federal Government from making 
airline passengers show proof of vaccine before catching a flight, 
which is exactly what Dr. Fauci wants to do.
  This bill also protects truckers and will ensure that the Biden 
administration can't ruin our supply chains even more. Our truckers are 
the key to fixing Biden's supply chain crisis, and we should do 
everything we can to protect them.
  President Biden has continually showed us his track record of failed 
policies and a mandate for domestic airline passengers would only add 
to his growing failures and blame shifting. We saw it in his failed and 
deadly withdrawal from Afghanistan. We have seen his administration's 
complete failure to handle the crisis across the southern border. We 
see it every day in President Biden's inability to fight inflation by 
stopping reckless spending. We continue to see his failure and complete 
void of leadership in how this administration is fighting COVID-19.
  Now, I am sure my Democrat colleagues will say that this legislation 
isn't needed because at this exact moment, there is not a vaccine 
mandate to fly on a plane, but they said the same thing last year when 
we tried to preemptively block vaccine mandates for private businesses. 
They claimed the President has committed not to do that. We know the 
President broke that promise.
  The American people deserve better than politicians who continue to 
mislead them on the Federal Government's failures to fight COVID 
properly. The back-and-forth has to end.
  We must end these ridiculous, unconstitutional vaccine mandates and 
focus on getting our economy back on track. That is why, as I mentioned 
earlier, the U.S. Senate passed a Congressional Review Act measure to 
invalidate President Biden's vaccine mandate on a bipartisan basis. The 
Senate, along with the majority of Americans, doesn't believe that the 
Federal Government should force people to choose between taking the 
vaccine and losing their job. That is why I am again demanding that the 
Federal Government stop trying to force the American people to follow 
draconian, job-killing mandates that hurt families.
  This is the second time I have come to the floor to try to pass this 
bill and protect the rights of American families and businesses. I 
would like to thank Senators Cynthia Lummis, Ron Johnson, Mike Lee, and 
Roger Marshall for joining me in introducing this important and 
urgently needed legislation. This is a commonsense bill, and I hope all 
my colleagues will support it.
  As if in legislative session, I ask unanimous consent that the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation be discharged from 
further consideration of S. 2895 and the Senate proceed to its 
immediate consideration.
  I further ask that the bill be considered read a third time and 
passed and that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid 
upon the table.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  The junior Senator from Washington.
  Ms. CANTWELL. Reserving the right to object, my colleague is right--
he has been to the floor to talk about this issue, and I don't think, 
though, that he has all the facts right.
  We just had a major transportation hearing in the Commerce Committee 
before we left for the holiday recess, and we heard from airline 
executives--some who had implemented their own vaccines, some who had 
implemented other mandates and systems on their own, and others who 
basically responded to the Federal Government's desire to say that 
passengers would be required to wear masks. All of them said that this 
was a big success. All of them said that this, along with the Federal 
dollars that went into preserving the airlines, allowed us and our 
economy to recover better than other nations had; basically that when 
the upswing in transportation got to the point where people felt it was 
safe to travel, that those mechanisms themselves helped us have an 
airline sector and industry that could respond so that we literally, by 
Thanksgiving, were up to 85, 90 percent of where we had been the 
previous year.
  So my colleague, I think, would like us to predetermine today exactly 
everything we are going to do on this issue; that we would prohibit the 
President, the Department of Transportation, Amtrak, and the 
Transportation Security Administration from making these decisions in 
the future.
  Now, I can just tell you, I get up every day and I read the press. I 
also went to the gym today, and the first thing they said is, Where is 
your vaccination card or we are not letting you in? So there is the 
fact that businesses--the airlines and small businesses--are using this 
as a tool. Even though DC has the highest explosion of COVID cases in 
the Nation as a percentage right now--I understand that in the 
neighborhood I live in, there was a pretty hearty New Year's Eve, but 
everybody had to show a vaccination card to get into those businesses. 
Those businesses decided they were going to stay open. Those consumers 
decided they were going to participate--not the choice I would have 
made, but they decided to do that, and they showed their vaccination 
card.
  So these businesses, the ones that the Federal Government is involved 
in--Amtrak and our transportation system--they also might have further 
issues in the future that they want to look at, so why pass a bill 
today that restricts them from showing proof of COVID vaccine in order 
to travel?
  The proposals that were made at the time--we didn't really know 2 
years ago now what was going to happen. But I can say--and that is why 
we had our most recent hearings--that we were right that the 
transportation sector was going to be critical to helping us fight the 
pandemic, that it was going to be critical for us to respond in our 
economy, and that it was going to be critical to providing essential 
services to some areas of the United States. The things we did allowed 
that air service to respond, and those business leaders showed up. In 
fact, one of them made a little mistake and said: Oh, you know, I think 
HEPA filters have really, really good responses, and maybe we don't 
need anything.
  Well, he corrected that the next day. He corrected it the next day. 
He said: Oh, yeah, yeah, by the way, I believed in the mask mandate and 
still do.
  An airline executive was questioned by some of my colleagues, who 
said: Why did you implement your own vaccine mandate of your employees?
  He said: Because I wanted to have a workforce, and this is the best 
way I could get this workforce.
  So this isn't a clear-cut issue, but I know, right now, why should we 
prohibit Amtrak or anybody from a decision that some of these small 
businesses are making right in this neighborhood, here in DC or 
probably Baltimore? My colleague has just joined us on the Senate 
floor. These people are making these decisions, and all we are saying 
is that the Federal Government, instead of passing Senator Scott's 
bill, should also have that decision in the future in their toolbox if 
they so choose. Why? Because the movement of commerce and 
transportation is so important to our infrastructure. It is so 
important to us as a nation to keep it going. I don't want to preclude 
any of the tools in the toolbox at this moment.
  So therefore, Mr. President, I object.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Hickenlooper). The objection is heard.
  The Senator from Florida.
  Mr. SCOTT of Florida. First off, I want to make sure my colleague 
understands what this bill would do. This bill would prevent Federal 
Agencies, like the Department of Transportation and the Department of 
Commerce, from requiring proof of vaccination for companies trying to 
do business across State lines.
  So what this bill does is say that the Federal Government is not 
going to mandate this. If a private business wants to say that you have 
to have a vaccine to come in, that is a decision that private business 
gets to make. But government shouldn't be in the position to tell a new 
business that they have to require a vaccine. I mean, that is not what 
you do.

[[Page S40]]

  What this does do is it is killing jobs. It is killing people and 
killing the jobs of people who worked their tail off in the prior 12 
months.
  Now, I don't know why this is controversial. The Senate, on a 
bipartisan basis, just passed a Congressional Review Act measure 
striking down President Biden's vaccine mandate. On a bipartisan basis 
we already decided we don't believe in what the President is doing.
  We have got families and businesses all across this country that are 
struggling to keep up with the cost of inflation, and the government 
should be doing everything it can to reduce inflation and get the 
economy going.
  Look, I know what it is like to go hungry because groceries cost too 
much. I watched my mom and my dad struggle for years. When prices rose, 
my mom took in odd jobs. When she struggled, we didn't have as much 
food on the table.
  It is the responsibility of the Federal Government to improve the 
economy and help families get ahead. We know the vaccine mandates are 
absolutely causing prices to rise. When prices rise, people are getting 
hurt, and they are making interstate commerce much more difficult.
  So instead of taking action to help families and curb inflation, the 
Biden Administration is taking every possible step to make it harder 
for them to put food on the table and afford to live in this country.
  The President has already said that this must be handled at the State 
level. I agree. And the Federal Government can take a step in this 
direction by ensuring vaccine passports won't be required for 
interstate commerce.
  They shouldn't be required to get on a plane. They shouldn't be 
required to carry goods across State lines.
  Even our Nation's healthcare providers know that mandates don't work. 
They stopped doing it in most cases. Just last month we saw hospitals 
across this country delay or suspend their vaccine mandates because 
they knew it was killing jobs.
  We know that Biden's unconstitutional mandates are going to make it 
more difficult to retain staff and deliver quality care to their 
patients. I don't understand why my colleague wants to give the 
government more power, more power, more power--upholding regulations 
that are causing prices to rise and forcing people to choose between 
keeping their jobs and getting a vaccine.
  We ought to give people the freedom to live their lives, to do 
exactly what my colleague just said: If a business wants to require a 
vaccine, they should require that. But if they don't, the government 
shouldn't be doing that. Our government should be giving people 
information, and let them make the decisions they want to make.
  I trust American families. I trust American businesses. They are 
smart enough to make informed decisions about their health. But my 
colleague's objection is bad for American families and bad for business 
owners, and I hope she will reconsider her objection.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Maryland.


                        Anniversary of January 6

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, tomorrow will mark the first anniversary 
of one of the darkest moments in our Nation's history. One year ago 
tomorrow, a mob attacked this building. A mob of Americans, incited by 
a sitting U.S. President, was determined to prevent the peaceful 
transition of power that is the hallmark of our representative 
democracy. A mob of Americans savagely attacked and overwhelmed the men 
and women of the U.S. Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police 
departments, smashed their way into this sacred space, and disrupted 
the joint session of Congress fulfilling its constitutional duty to 
count the electoral college ballots awarding the Presidency to Joe 
Biden.
  January 6, like December 7 and September 11, is a date which will 
live in infamy.
  I refer to the U.S. Capitol as a sacred space because it is so much 
more than a building where the Senate and House of Representatives meet 
and conduct business. It is the embodiment of our ideals, our 
aspirations and hopes, not just to Americans but also to all of 
humanity.
  In the 1960 essay on ``national purpose'' for the New York Times and 
LIFE magazine, Archibald MacLeish wrote:

       There are those who will say that the liberation of 
     humanity, the freedom of man and mind is nothing but a dream. 
     They are right. It is the American Dream.

  Insurrectionists desecrated this sacred space and everything it 
stands for, including liberty, self-government and the rule of law. The 
Architect of the Capitol can measure the damage they did to this 
building in millions of dollars. The damage they did to our moral 
standing in the world is inestimable.
  I want to take this moment to acknowledge and pay tribute to the 
thousands of people who work in Congress or cover it for the press and 
continue to suffer from the trauma of January the 6th. I am talking 
about the brave police officers who protected us. They engaged in a 
battle that one officer described as ``medieval.''
  And 140 of them, including Metropolitan Police Department officers, 
suffered physical injuries. One of them, Officer Brian Sicknick, died. 
I imagine all the officers who defended the Capitol bear the 
psychological scars of the attack.
  Four officers--Howard Liebengood, Jeffrey Smith, Gunther Hashida, and 
Kyle DeFreytag committed suicide in the aftermath. But I am also 
talking about the staff who work here in the Capitol, in the Senate and 
House Chambers: the doorkeepers, the Parliamentarian's office, the bill 
clerk, the Congressional Record staff, the floor and cloakroom staff, 
and so many others. Many of them had to shelter in place. They had to 
barricade themselves in offices, hoping the police would get to them 
before the insurrectionists did.
  I am talking about the committee and legislative staff in our DC 
offices and back in our State and district offices, who watched the 
attack in horror and disbelief and feared for the safety of their 
friends and colleagues, who answer the phones and hear death threats 
and obscenities.
  I am talking about the food service workers, custodial staff, and 
other Architect of the Capitol and Sergeant at Arms employees who were 
caught in the mayhem and then immediately went to work cleaning up the 
mess, repairing the damage, and providing other essential services, all 
in the midst of a raging pandemic.
  I am talking about those reporters who documented the insurrection at 
great personal peril after Donald Trump spent the previous 4 years 
calling them the enemies of the people and openly encouraged his 
supporters to attack them at his rallies.
  Congress could not function without this community of patriotic and 
hard-working Americans. This community is hurting. On New Year's Day, 
the Washington Post ran an article entitled ``Shaken by the Jan. 6 
attack, Capitol workers quit jobs that once made them proud.'' ``Quit 
jobs that once made them proud''--what a terrible thing, what a loss to 
our Nation.
  The danger our Nation faced on January 6 has not dissipated. As the 
New York Times editorial board stated a few days ago, ``the Republic 
faces an existential threat from a movement that is openly contemptuous 
of democracy and has shown that it is willing to use violence to 
achieve its ends.''
  The leader of this movement, of course, is Donald Trump. The 
organizing principle is the Big Lie that Democrats ``stole'' the 
election. The mindset is what historian Richard Hofstadter called ``the 
paranoid style in American politics,'' which ``produces . . . strivings 
for evidence to prove that the unbelievable is the only thing that can 
be believed.''
  The response to nearly nonexistent voter fraud is to engage in 
massive voter suppression. The objective is not election reform; it is 
election repeal.
  It is important to understand that the insurrection on January 6 was 
not a spontaneous event. As Ed Kilgore wrote in a New York magazine 
article entitled ``Trump's Long Campaign to Steal the Presidency: A 
timeline,'' ``The insurrection was a complex, years-long plot, not a 
one-day event. And it isn't over.''
  Rightwing media personalities and QAnon conspiracy followers 
feverishly and cynically stoke the movement for their own gain. Elected 
Republican officials, fearful of Donald Trump's wrath or eager to curry 
favor with him, enable it.

[[Page S41]]

  In 1950, Republican Senator Margaret Chase Smith of Maine issued her 
``Declaration of Conscience'' in response to another authoritarian 
bully, fellow Republican Senator Joe McCarthy of Wisconsin. Senator 
Smith was no fan of the Truman administration, but she said the 
following:
  [T]o displace it with a Republican regime embracing a philosophy that 
lacks political integrity or intellectual honesty would prove equally 
disastrous to the nation. . . . I do not want to see the Republican 
party ride to political victory on the Four Horsemen of Calumny--Fear, 
Ignorance, Bigotry, and Smear. I doubt if the Republican party could do 
so, simply because I do not believe the American people will uphold any 
political party that puts political exploitation above national 
interest. Surely we Republicans are not that desperate for victory.

       I do not want to see the Republican party win that way. 
     While it might be a fleeting victory for the Republican 
     party, it would be a more lasting defeat for the American 
     people. Surely it would ultimately be suicide for the 
     Republican party and the two-party system that has protected 
     our American liberties from the dictatorship of a one-party 
     system.

  I urge my Republican colleagues to follow the example of Margaret 
Chase Smith. There is nothing conservative about advocating force over 
the rule of law. There is nothing conservative about pledging loyalty 
to a man over upholding the U.S. Constitution.
  I understand that many Americans are disinclined to believe that the 
President of the United States would blatantly lie to them, but it is 
exactly what Donald Trump has been doing since he claimed that millions 
of people who voted illegally cost him the popular vote majority in the 
2016 election. In fact, his lies go back even further, to his vile 
birther claims about President Obama.
  We have the opportunity and the imperative for a course correction to 
save our Republic, and that is to restore, expand, and protect voting 
rights.
  The Senate must consider S. 2747, the Freedom to Vote Act, and S. 4, 
the bipartisan John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.
  On multiple occasions, Senate Democrats voted unanimously just to 
begin considering these bills to protect people's right to vote, which 
has come under sustained assault. Each time we have tried to proceed to 
these measures, every Republican Senator has voted to sustain a 
filibuster. Senate Republicans put gridlock and partisanship before the 
rights of voters. They are blocking the Senate from having a chance to 
consider options and amendments and do what the Founding Fathers 
intended us to do: debate and legislate.
  Within the next few days, our Republican colleagues in the Senate 
will have yet another opportunity, a chance to do the right thing. Many 
Senators have worked diligently to come up with compromise legislation 
that still preserves the essential elements of S. 1, For the People 
Act, that the House of Representatives has already passed.
  And President Biden is absolutely correct that we need to enact 
voting rights legislation to repair the damage the Supreme Court did to 
the Voting Rights Act. President Biden rightly calls efforts to limit 
ballot access across the country as a 21st century Jim Crow assault. He 
warned Americans that the Republican efforts to restrict voting rights 
as a result of their selfish challenge of the 2020 election results 
represent ``the most significant test of our democracy since the Civil 
War.''
  In many States, Republican legislatures and Governors have responded 
to the falsehoods of the 2020 election by restricting voting 
accessibility. Donald Trump's Big Lie has directly led to 
disenfranchisement and suppression of the right to vote of millions of 
Americans.
  I urge my colleagues and my fellow American citizens to reflect on 
the state of our democracy and the rights we hold so dear. A blatant 
attempt to falsify an election and persistent efforts to deny the 
American people access to the ballot box has eroded American democracy 
to a dangerous level and undermined the freedom and liberty that so 
many Americans have fought to defend and advance.
  After elections are over and we win, we celebrate. We celebrate the 
fact that we have garnered the support of the majority of the voters. 
If we don't win--I think many of us have been involved in campaigns 
where our candidates have not been successful--we go to work and try to 
attract more voters in the next election so we can celebrate a victory. 
That is what participation in a free society is all about. That is what 
democracies are about.
  And repressive, autocratic regimes never accept the will of the 
people so they look at ways in which they can undermine the voting 
record, what the voters want, and the voters' will.
  We should all celebrate the record number of people who cast their 
ballots in the 2020 Presidential election. More Americans cast their 
votes for the Presidential candidate than ever before.
  After the election, both Democrats and Republicans conducted numerous 
reviews at the Federal, State, and local levels. Those reviews verified 
the simple fact that there was no widespread corruption or election 
fraud; that the will of the people prevailed; and Joe Biden and Kamala 
Harris were duly elected.
  Congress and Vice President Pence counted the electoral votes for 
President and Vice President and did their duty under the Constitution 
on January 6, notwithstanding the armed insurrection at the Capitol.
  But that did not stop Donald Trump from promoting the Big Lie, and 
that, in turn, has prompted Republican-led States to make it harder for 
people to cast their votes. The Brennan Center has pointed out that we 
are in the middle of the worst assault on voting rights since Jim Crow.
  So what are these laws doing? They are making it more difficult for 
people to register to vote. They are making it more difficult to vote 
by mail. They are making it more difficult to vote in person. 
Republicans apparently believe that demographic trends will prevent 
them from winning elections so they are surgically attacking the voting 
rights of people--mostly people of color--they believe will not vote 
for them.
  We have States that have 100 percent voting by mail. There has been 
no indication of fraud in voting by mail. But now, some States have 
shortened the time for requesting mail-in ballots, making it more 
difficult for individuals to vote by mail. They are making it more 
difficult for people to deliver their ballots by limiting the 
availability of ballot drop boxes, all because they think that will be 
utilized more by people who will not vote for them.
  The Republicans in charge of these States want to make it harder for 
people to vote in person too--stricter signature requirements, reducing 
the number of places where people can vote, purging voter rolls simply 
because a person didn't vote, and the list goes on and on and on; all 
of these making it more difficult for people to register to vote or be 
eligible to vote who are more likely to vote for their opponents. Some 
of these States are even opening up the possibility that election 
officials can substitute their judgment for the will of the people.
  The Freedom to Vote Act provides a basic Federal floor on protecting 
the right to vote. The legislation includes commonsense items such as 
automatic and online voter registration, uniform early voting, same-day 
voter registration, voting by mail and drop box standards and uniform 
national standards for voter identification.
  The Freedom to Vote Act ends political gerrymandering by creating 
nonpartisan redistricting commissions, requires voter-verified paper 
ballots and reliable audits, and ends the dominance of Big Money in 
political systems by increasing disclosure and transparency.
  S. 2747 includes two provisions I authored: First, it includes the 
Democracy Restoration Act, which deals with laws that many States 
passed at the end of the Civil War that are still on the books that 
disqualify a person convicted of a felony from voting for the rest of 
his or her life. The definition of ``felony'' can be quite general in 
many States so the impact of these laws fall disproportionately on 
people of color, which was its intent. There are States where one out 
of five Black Americans have been disqualified from voting because of a 
felony conviction, even when that individual has served his or her 
sentence and has returned to society. We need to remove that 
disqualification on voting.

[[Page S42]]

  I am proud that S. 2747 also includes my Deceptive Practices and 
Voter Intimidation Prevention Act. Spreading false or misleading 
information or intimidating the electorate remain regularly employed 
and effective methods to keep individuals, particularly Black Americans 
and racial minorities, from voting. Advancements in communications, 
including the rise of social media platforms, have made it easier for 
bad actors to use these strategies. My provisions prohibit individuals 
from knowingly deceiving voters about the time, place, eligibility or 
procedures of participating in a Federal election. It criminalizes 
intentional efforts to hinder, interfere with, or prevent another 
person from voting, registering to vote, or aiding another person to 
vote or register to vote.
  The late John Lewis of Georgia was a dear friend and a former 
colleague. We first won election to the U.S. House of Representatives 
on the same day. Representative Lewis recalled an important lesson that 
he learned from the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., when he said 
that ``each of us has a moral obligation to stand up, speak up, and 
speak out. When you see something that is not right, you must say 
something. You must do something. Democracy is not a state. It is an 
act. And each generation must do its part.''
  Well, we need to follow Congressman Lewis' admonition. We can do our 
part by passing the bipartisan John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement 
Act, S. 4. Congress has a historic and bipartisan tradition of coming 
together across party lines to safeguard and strengthen the right to 
vote, which is the bedrock of our democracy.
  Congress passed and the States ratified the 15th Amendment after the 
Civil War, which declared that ``the rights of citizens of the United 
States to vote should not be denied or abridged by the United States or 
by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of 
servitude.''
  The 15th Amendment also states that Congress--Congress--has the power 
to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
  That is exactly what the Senate is trying to do with the John Lewis 
legislation. The bill would restore key provisions of the Voting Rights 
Act of 1965 that the Supreme Court severely weakened in its Shelby 
County v. Holder decision.
  Fifty-seven years ago, Congress designed the Voting Rights Act to 
protect equal access to elections for all eligible Americans and passed 
the measure to respond to widespread disenfranchisement--particularly 
of racial and language minorities--between the post-Civil War period 
and the 1960s.
  S. 4 would require the Federal pre-clearance for certain changes to 
voting laws and procedures. It would block changes that restrict the 
right to vote, particularly changes that disproportionately 
disenfranchise minority communities. The bill would allow plaintiffs 
and the Justice Department to bring lawsuits that deny or abridge the 
voting rights of minority voters and restore legal tools needed to 
enforce nationwide, permanent Federal bans on voter suppression efforts 
targeting minorities.
  We cannot pass voting rights legislation as long as the Senate 
Republicans continue to filibuster even just to proceed to S. 2747 and 
S. 4. Inaction on voting rights is not an option as we prepare for our 
2022 elections, which must be free and fair so that the American people 
have faith in our elections and their outcomes, particularly after the 
insurrection at the U.S. Capitol on January 6.
  We need to change the filibuster rule. As President Biden just said 
before the holidays, ``If the only thing standing between getting 
voting rights legislation passed and not getting it passed is the 
filibuster, I support making the exception of voting rights for the 
filibuster.''
  I agree with President Biden. We cannot take action to safeguard 
voting rights if we don't start right now. States are already drawing 
their 2022 political boundaries to comply with population changes from 
the 2020 census, and we cannot start our work unless my colleagues 
allow us to proceed to this issue on the floor of the U.S. Senate.
  I urge my colleagues not to filibuster the right of the U.S. Senate 
to start the debate on protecting voter integrity, where each Member 
will have the opportunity to debate the issue and offer amendments. 
Many Senators have offered suggestions about how we can improve these 
two voting rights bills. Collectively, we have a chance to come 
together for the American people, something they elected us to do.
  We will not reach a consensus if we cannot even proceed to the bills. 
I will support changing the Senate rules, returning the Senate to its 
historic role of debating and voting on critical issues.
  Voting rights legislation needs to be debated in the Senate and voted 
upon by a majority vote in the U.S. Senate.
  Our noble experiment representing democracy is in grave danger. Let 
us come together and protect the integrity of the Senate, respond to 
the threat we saw on January 6 of last year, and take up and pass 
voting rights legislation.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Massachusetts.


                        Anniversary of January 6

  Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, January 6, 2022, marks 1 year since the 
attempted coup at our Nation's Capitol.
  I am deeply grateful for the Capitol Police for their heroic acts on 
that dark day. The American people will always remember the sacrifices 
they made to protect our democracy.
  But marking this date has another purpose, too. The January 6 
insurrection made painfully clear that American democracy is seriously 
at risk. In November of 2020, American citizens braved a deadly 
pandemic to cast their ballots. But following that election, the 
defeated President refused to commit to a peaceful transfer of power.
  Instead, he falsely sowed doubt about the legitimacy of the election 
and inflamed his most dangerous supporters to attack this Capitol. His 
attempts to cling to power through lies and violence were a violation 
of his oath of office and a grave abuse of power that can never be 
tolerated in a free and democratic society.
  We mark this anniversary not only to reflect on that dereliction of 
duty, but also to call out the ongoing efforts to undermine our 
democracy.
  Threats to our democracy are not new. For years, in State after 
State, Republican legislatures have passed laws making it harder to 
vote, all on a purely partisan basis with simple majority votes. They 
have imposed strict voter ID requirements and purged voter rolls to 
disenfranchise minority voters. They have made it harder to vote by 
mail and register to vote. They have gerrymandered districts for 
partisan political gain.
  Over the past year, these shameless efforts have become even more 
brazen. Just as the former President was clear that he wanted to 
overturn the results of the 2020 election, Trump and his allies are 
entirely transparent about their goal of overturning future elections. 
Today, Republican opponents of democracy are exploiting every possible 
avenue to allow their party to maintain control, even if that means 
overturning the will of the American people.
  Rather than putting a stop to these attacks on voting rights, the 
Supreme Court has enabled them. The Roberts Court gutted the core of 
the Voting Rights Act, which is why Republican legislatures right now 
can pass anti-voter laws with ease.
  Last year, they destroyed what was left of the country's landmark 
voting rights law, making it nearly impossible to block laws with 
racially discriminatory effects. They twice overturned key protections 
against dark money in our elections, and they gave a green light to 
partisan gerrymandering.
  The Senate must not turn a blind eye while the Federal judiciary and 
State legislatures lead an all-out assault against free and fair 
elections in America. It is clear that Donald Trump's Republican Party 
is embracing an increasingly authoritarian movement.
  In 2006, the Voting Rights Act was reauthorized unanimously in the 
U.S. Senate. And yet today, only one Republican supports the Voting 
Rights Act, and none have endorsed the Freedom to Vote Act. The Senate 
filibuster means that Mitch McConnell gets a veto and Congress cannot 
protect the sacred right to vote unless Republican politicians agree, 
all while they are actively undermining our democracy in State after 
State.

[[Page S43]]

  My view on this is simple: We did not swear an oath to protect a 
procedural rule like the filibuster, which has been the tool of racial 
segregation and Jim Crow. No, we swore an oath to defend the 
Constitution. When the Senate rules stand in the way of voting rights 
legislation, then those Senate rules must change.
  A year after an insurrection at our Nation's Capitol, we must do more 
than speak up about the importance of democracy. Now, we must act. It 
is time to end the filibuster, time to protect voting rights, and time 
to defend our democracy.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Iowa.

[House Prints 117-6]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


                  BUSINESS MEETING TO CONSIDER THE SELECT 
                         COMMITTEE'S FINAL REPORT

=======================================================================

                                MEETING

                                 OF THE

                          SELECT COMMITTEE TO
                      INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH
                             ATTACK ON THE
                         UNITED STATES CAPITOL

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               __________

                           DECEMBER 19, 2022

                               __________

                            Serial No. 117-6

                               __________

Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
                6th Attack On the United States Capitol
                                     

[GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT] 
                                     

        Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov

                               __________


                    U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE                    
50-119                     WASHINGTON : 2022                     
          
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE UNITED 
                             STATES CAPITOL

               Bennie G. Thompson, Mississippi, Chairman
                    Liz Cheney, Wyoming, Vice Chair
                        Zoe Lofgren, California
                       Adam B. Schiff, California
                        Pete Aguilar, California
                      Stephanie N. Murphy, Florida
                         Jamie Raskin, Maryland
                       Elaine G. Luria, Virginia
                        Adam Kinzinger, Illinois
                            
                            COMMITTEE STAFF

                    David B. Buckley, Staff Director
      Kristin L. Amerling, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
               Hope Goins, Senior Counsel to the Chairman
           Joseph B. Maher, Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair
             Timothy J. Heaphy, Chief Investigative Counsel
                      Jamie Fleet, Senior Advisor
               Timothy R. Mulvey, Communications Director
           Candyce Phoenix, Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor
 John F. Wood, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice 
                                 Chair

Katherine B. Abrams, Staff		Thomas E. Joscelyn, Senior Professional 	 
    Associate                             Staff Member
Temidayo Aganga-Williams, Senior	Rebecca L. Knooihuizen, Financial 	 
    Investigative Counsel		  Investigator
Alejandra Apecechea, Investigative	Casey E. Lucier, Investigative Counsel 
    Counsel				Damon M. Marx, Professional Staff Member	
Lisa A. Bianco, Director of Member 	Evan B. Mauldin, Chief Clerk
    Services and Security Manager	Yonatan L. Moskowitz, Senior Counsel
Jerome P. Bjelopera, Investigator	Hannah G. Muldavin, Deputy 
Bryan Bonner, Investigative Counsel	  Communications Director
Richard R. Bruno, Senior 		Jonathan D. Murray, Professional Staff
    Administrative Assistant		  Member
Marcus Childress, Investigative 	Jacob A. Nelson, Professional Staff Member
    Counsel				Elizabeth Obrand, Staff Associate
John Marcus Clark, Security		Raymond O'Mara, Director of External
    Director				  Affairs
Jacqueline N. Colvett, Digital		Elyes Ouechtati, Technology Partner 
    Director				Robin M. Peguero, Investigative Counsel	
Heather I. Connelly, Professional	Sandeep A. Prasanna, Investigative Counsel
    Staff Member			Barry Pump, Parliamentarian
Meghan E. Conroy, Investigator		Sean M. Quinn, Investigative Counsel
Heather L. Crowell, Printer 		Brittany M. J. Record, Senior Counsel
    Proofreader				Denver Riggleman, Senior Technical Advisor
William C. Danvers, Senior 		Joshua D. Roselman, Investigative Counsel
    Researcher				James N. Sasso, Senior Investigative Counsel
Soumyalatha Dayananda, Senior 		Grant H. Saunders, Professional Staff 
    Investigative Counsel		  Member
Stephen W. DeVine, Senior Counsel	Samantha O. Stiles, Chief Administrative 
Lawrence J. Eagleburger, 		  Officer
    Professional Staff Member		Sean P. Tonolli, Senior Investigative 
Kevin S. Elliker, Investigative           Counsel
    Counsel				David A. Weinberg, Senior Professional Staff 
Margaret E. Emamzadeh, Staff 		  Member
    Associate				Amanda S. Wick, Senior Investigative 
Sadallah A. Farah, Professional 	  Counsel
    Staff Member			Darrin L. Williams, Jr., Staff Assistant
Daniel A. George, Senior 		Zachary S. Wood, Clerk
    Investigative Counsel
Jacob H. Glick, Investigative 
    Counsel
Aaron S. Greene, Clerk
Marc S. Harris, Senior 
    Investigative Counsel
Alice K. Hayes, Clerk
Quincy T. Henderson, Staff 
    Assistant
Jenna Hopkins, Professional Staff 
    Member
Camisha L. Johnson, Professional 
    Staff Member                                                              
                      
                      CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS

                             Rawaa Alobaidi
                             Melinda Arons
                              Steve Baker
                            Elizabeth Bisbee
                              David Canady
                             John Coughlin
                             Aaron Dietzen
                              Gina Ferrise
                           Angel Goldsborough
                             James Goldston
                              Polly Grube
                          L. Christine Healey
                             Danny Holladay
                              Percy Howard
                              Dean Jackson
                           Stephanie J. Jones
                              Hyatt Mamoun
                               Mary Marsh
                               Todd Mason
                              Ryan Mayers
                              Jeff McBride
                               Fred Muram
                             Alex Newhouse
                              John Norton
                             Orlando Pinder
                               Owen Pratt
                              Dan Pryzgoda
                              Brian Sasser
                            William Scherer
                              Driss Sekkat
                              Chris Stuart
                            Preston Sullivan
                              Brian Young

                           Innovative Driven
                            
                            C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page

                   Statements of Members of Congress

The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee 
  to Investigate the January 6th Attack On the United States 
  Capitol........................................................     1
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to 
  Investigate the January 6th Attack On the United States Capitol     2
The Honorable Zoe Lofgren, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California............................................     7
The Honorable Adam B. Schiff, a Representative in Congress From 
  the State of California........................................     9
The Honorable Adam Kinzinger, a Representative in Congress From 
  the State of Illinois..........................................    10
The Honorable Pete Aguilar, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California............................................    12
The Honorable Stephanie N. Murphy, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Florida......................................    13
The Honorable Elaine G. Luria, a Representative in Congress From 
  the State of Virginia..........................................    14
The Honorable Jamie Raskin, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Maryland..............................................    16

                           Committee Business

Final Report.....................................................    19

 
    BUSINESS MEETING TO CONSIDER THE SELECT COMMITTEE'S FINAL REPORT

                              ----------                              


                       Monday, December 19, 2022

                     U.S. House of Representatives,
 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack On 
                                 the United States Capitol,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 1:07 p.m., in the 
Speaker Nancy Pelosi Caucus Room, room 390, Cannon House Office 
Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson (Chairman of the Committee) 
presiding.
    Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger.
    Chairman Thompson. A quorum being present, the Select 
Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United 
States Capitol will be in order.
    Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the 
Committee in recess at any point.
    Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 10, the 
Chair announces the Committee's approval to release the 
deposition material presented during today's meeting and, 
further, its approval to release deposition material that 
accompanies the release of the Select Committee's final report.
    Good afternoon, and may God bless the United States of 
America.
    To cast a vote in the United States is an act of faith and 
hope. When we drop that ballot in the ballot box, we expect the 
people named on the ballot are going to uphold their end of the 
deal. The winner swears an oath and upholds it. Those who come 
up short ultimately accept the results and abide by the rule of 
law.
    That faith in our system is the foundation of American 
democracy. If the faith is broken, so is our democracy.
    Donald Trump broke that faith. He lost the 2020 election 
and knew it. But he chose to try to stay in office through a 
multi-part scheme to overturn the results and block the 
transfer of power.
    In the end, he summoned a mob to Washington and, knowing 
they were armed and angry, pointed them to the Capitol and told 
them to ``fight like hell.'' There is no doubt about this.
    This afternoon, my colleagues will present our key 
findings, reminding you of some of the information we presented 
in earlier hearings and telling you how it fits in our broader 
conclusions.
    Those conclusions have helped shape the Committee's final 
report, which we will adopt today pursuant to House Resolution 
503, which established the Select Committee nearly a year-and-
a-half ago. I expect our final work will be filed with the 
Clerk of the House and made public later this week.
    Beyond that release, the Select Committee intends to make 
public the bulk of its nonsensitive records before the end of 
the year. These transcripts and documents will allow the 
American people to see for themselves the body of evidence we 
have gathered and continue to explore the information that has 
led us to our conclusions.
    This Committee is nearing the end of its work, but, as a 
country, we remain in strange and uncharted waters. We have 
never had a President of the United States stir up a violent 
attempt to block the transfer of power.
    I believe, nearly 2 years later, this is still a time of 
reflection and reckoning. If we are to survive as a Nation of 
laws and democracy, this can never happen again.
    How do we stop it?
    This Committee will lay out a number of recommendations in 
its final report, but beyond any specific details and 
recommendations we present, there is one factor I believe is 
most important in preventing another January 6th: 
accountability.
    So, today, beyond our findings, we will also show that 
evidence we have gathered points to further action beyond the 
power of this Committee or the Congress to help ensure 
accountability under law, accountability that can only be found 
in the criminal justice system.
    We have every confidence that the work of this Committee 
will help provide a road map to justice and that the agencies 
and institutions responsible for ensuring justice under the law 
will use the information we have provided to aid in their work.
    For those of you who have followed this Committee's work, I 
hope we have helped make clear that there is a broader kind of 
accountability--accountability to all of you, the American 
people.
    The future of our democracy rests in your hands. It is up 
to the people of this country to decide who deserves the public 
trust, who will put fidelity to the Constitution and democracy 
above all else, who will abide by the rule of law no matter the 
outcome.
    I am grateful to the millions of you who have followed this 
Committee's work. I hope we lived up to our commitment to 
present the facts and let the facts speak for themselves.
    Let me say in closing, the women and men seated around me 
on this dais are public servants in the most genuine sense. 
They have put aside politics and partisanship to ensure the 
success of this Committee in providing answers to the American 
people.
    I especially want to thank and acknowledge our Vice Chair, 
who has become a true partner in this bipartisan effort, Ms. 
Cheney of Wyoming.
    I also recognize her for any opening statement that she 
would care to offer.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank 
you for your tremendous leadership of this Committee. I know we 
all have benefited greatly from your wisdom and your wise 
counsel, so thank you very much.
    In April of 1861, when Abraham Lincoln issued the first 
call for volunteers for the Union Army, my great-great-
grandfather, Samuel Fletcher Cheney, joined the 21st Ohio 
Volunteer Infantry.
    He fought through all 4 years of the Civil War, from 
Chickamauga, to Stones River, to Atlanta. He marched with his 
unit in the Grand Review of Troops up Pennsylvania Avenue in 
May of 1865 past a reviewing stand where President Johnson and 
General Grant were seated.
    Silas Canfield, the regimental historian of the 21st Ohio 
Volunteer Infantry, described the men in the unit this way. He 
said, ``They had a just appreciation of the value and advantage 
of free government and the necessity of defending and 
maintaining it. And they enlisted, prepared to accept all the 
necessary labors, fatigues, exposures, dangers, and even death, 
for the unity of our Nation and the perpetuity of our 
institutions.''
    I have found myself thinking often, especially since 
January 6th, of my great-great-grandfather and all those in 
every generation who have sacrificed so much for the unity of 
our Nation and the perpetuity of our institutions.
    At the heart of our Republic is the guarantee of the 
peaceful transfer of power. Members of Congress are reminded of 
this every day as we pass through the Capitol Rotunda. There, 
eight magnificent paintings detail the earliest days of our 
Republic.
    One, painted by John Trumbull, depicts the moment in 1783 
when George Washington resigned his commission, handing control 
of the Continental Army back to Congress. Trumbull called this 
``one of the highest moral lessons ever given the world.'' With 
this noble act, George Washington established the indispensable 
example of the peaceful transfer of power in our Nation.
    Standing on the West Front of the Capitol in 1981, 
President Ronald Reagan described it this way: ``The orderly 
transfer of authority, as called for in the Constitution, 
routinely takes place, as it has for almost two centuries, and 
few of us stop to think how unique we really are. In the eyes 
of many in the world, this every-four-year ceremony that we 
accept as normal is nothing less than a miracle.''
    Every President in our history has defended this orderly 
transfer of authority--except one. January 6, 2021, was the 
first time one American President refused his constitutional 
duty to transfer power peacefully to the next.
    In our work over the last 18 months, the Select Committee 
has recognized our obligation to do everything we can to ensure 
this never happens again.
    At the beginning of our investigation, we understood that 
tens of millions of Americans had been persuaded by President 
Trump that the 2020 election was stolen by overwhelming fraud. 
We also knew this was flatly false.
    We knew that dozens of the State and Federal judges had 
addressed and resolved all manner of allegations about the 
election. Our legal system functioned as it should, but our 
President would not accept the outcome.
    Among the most shameful of this Committee's findings was 
that President Trump sat in a dining room off the Oval Office 
watching the violent riot at the Capitol on television. For 
hours, he would not issue a public statement instructing his 
supporters to disperse and leave the Capitol despite urgent 
pleas from his White House staff and dozens of others to do so. 
Members of his family, his White House lawyers, virtually all 
those around him, knew that this simple act was critical. For 
hours, he would not do it.
    During this time, law enforcement agents were attacked and 
seriously injured, the Capitol was invaded, the electoral count 
was halted, and the lives of those in the Capitol were put at 
risk.
    In addition to being unlawful, as described in our report, 
this was an utter moral failure and a clear dereliction of 
duty. Evidence of this can be seen in the testimony of 
President Trump's own White House Counsel and several other 
White House witnesses.
    No man who would behave that way at that moment in time can 
ever serve in any position of authority in our Nation again. He 
is unfit for any office.
    The Committee recognizes that our work has only begun; it 
is only the initial step in addressing President Trump's effort 
to remain in office illegally. Prosecutors are considering the 
implications of the conduct that we describe in our report, as 
are citizens all across our Nation.
    In 1761, John Adams wrote, ``The very ground of our 
liberties is the freedom of elections. Faith in our elections 
and the rule of law is paramount to our Republic.'' Election 
deniers, those who refuse to accept lawful election results, 
purposely attack the rule of law and the foundation of our 
country.
    The history of our time will show that the bravery of a 
handful of Americans doing their duty saved us from an even 
more grave constitutional crisis. Elected officials, election 
workers, and public servants stood against Donald Trump's 
corrupt pressure.
    Many of our Committee's witnesses showed selfless 
patriotism, and their words and courage will be remembered. The 
brave men and women of the Capitol Police, the Metropolitan 
Police, and all the other law enforcement officers who fought 
to defend us that day saved lives and our democracy.
    Finally, I wish to thank my colleagues on this Committee. 
It has been a tremendous honor to serve with all of you. We 
have accomplished great and important things together, and I 
hope we have set an example.
    I also want to thank all of those who have honorably 
contributed to the work of our Committee and to our report. We 
have accomplished much over a short period of time. Many of you 
sacrificed for the good of our Nation. You have helped make 
history and, I hope, helped to right the ship.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    As you know, this is our final meeting of our Committee. 
Over the course of the last year-and-a-half, we have presented 
evidence in nine public hearings, testimony from our brave law 
enforcement officers, senior White House and campaign 
officials, and many others. Today, we are prepared to share our 
final findings with you.
    But before we do so, it is important to remember what we 
have learned and, critically, exactly what happened at the 
United States Capitol on January 6th.
    Without objection, I include in the record a video 
presentation of some of the key evidence our investigation has 
uncovered.

    Officer Edwards. There were officers on the ground. They were 
bleeding. They were throwing up. I mean, I saw friends with blood all 
over their faces. I was slipping in people's blood.
    Officer Fanone. As I was swarmed by a violent mob, they ripped off 
my badge. They grabbed and stripped me of my radio. They seized 
ammunition that was secured to my body. They began to beat me with 
their fists and with what felt like hard metal objects.
    Mr. Stone. The key thing to do is to claim victory. No, we won. 
Fuck you. Sorry. Over. We won. You're wrong. Fuck you.
    Attorney General Barr. Right out of the box on election night, the 
President claimed that there was major fraud underway. I mean, this 
happened, as far as I could tell, before there was actually any 
potential of looking at evidence.
    Mr. Stepien. I didn't think what was happening was necessarily 
honest or professional at that point in time. So that led to me 
stepping away.
    Mr. Morgan. Generally discussed on that topic was whether the 
fraud, maladministration, abuse, or irregularities, if aggregated and 
read most favorably to the campaign, would that be outcome-determinant? 
And I think everyone's assessment in the room, at least amongst the 
staff--Marc Short, myself, and Greg Jacob--was that it was not 
sufficient to be outcome-determinative.
    Secretary of Labor Scalia. I told him that I did believe, yes, that 
once those legal processes were run, if fraud had not been established 
that had affected the outcome of the election, then, unfortunately, I 
believed that what had to be done was concede the outcome.
    Ms. Lofgren. What were the chances of President Trump winning the 
election?
    Mr. Stirewalt. After that point?
    Ms. Lofgren. Yes.
    Mr. Stirewalt. None.
    President Trump. So what are we gonna do here, folks? I only need 
11,000 votes. Fellas, I need 11,000 votes. Give me a break.
    Mr. Raffensperger. The numbers are the numbers. The numbers don't 
lie. We had many allegations, and we investigated every single one of 
them.
    Mr. Schiff. Did one of them make a comment that they didn't have 
evidence but they had a lot of theories?
    Mr. Bowers. That was Mr. Giuliani.
    Mr. Schiff. And what exactly did he say, and how did that come up?
    Mr. Bowers. My recollection, he said, ``We've got lots of theories. 
We just don't have the evidence.''
    You are asking me do something that has never been done in history, 
the history of the United States, and I am going to put my State 
through that without sufficient proof?
    Mr. Giuliani. There is a tape earlier in the day of Ruby Freeman 
and Shaye Freeman Moss and one other gentleman quite obviously 
surreptitiously passing around USB ports as if they are vials of heroin 
or cocaine.
    Mr. Schiff. In one of the videos we just watched, Mr. Giuliani 
accused you and your mother of passing some sort of USB drive to each 
other. What was your mom actually handing you on that video?
    Ms. Moss. A ginger mint.
    Ms. Freeman. Do you know how it feels to have the President of the 
United States target you? The President of the United States is 
supposed to represent every American, not to target one.
    Attorney General Barr. I made it clear I did not agree with the 
idea of saying the election was stolen and putting out this stuff which 
I told the President was bullshit.
    Acting Attorney General Rosen. He wanted to talk about that he 
thought the election had been stolen or was corrupt and that there was 
widespread fraud. And I had told him that our reviews had not shown 
that to be the case.
    Mr. Donoghue. And I said something to the effect of, ``Sir, we've 
done dozens of investigations, hundreds of interviews. The major 
allegations are not supported by the evidence developed.''
    Mr. Cipollone. Well, my first thought was, this is a terrible idea. 
Jeff Clark cannot be installed as Acting Attorney General of the United 
States.
    Mr. Heaphy. You ultimately told us that you described this meeting 
as a--or, not this meeting--the Georgia letter that was proposed as an 
F'ing murder-suicide pact. Do you remember using the term ``murder-
suicide pact''?
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes.
    Crowd. Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike Pence!
    Mr. Heaphy. Was it your impression that the Vice President had 
directly conveyed his position on these issues to the President, not 
just to the world through a dear-colleague letter, but directly to 
President Trump?
    Mr. Short. Many times.
    Mr. Cipollone. My view is that the Vice President didn't have the 
legal authority to do anything except what he did.
    Mr. Herschmann. And I said to him, ``Hold on a second. I want to 
understand what you're saying. You're saying that you believe the Vice 
President, acting as President of the Senate, can be the sole decision 
maker as to, under your theory, who becomes the next President of the 
United States?'' And he said, ``Yes.'' And I said, ``Are you out of 
your F'ing mind?''
    Mr. Jason Miller. The President was--you know, all the attention 
was on what Mike would do or what Mike wouldn't do.
    Mr. Wood. There is a telephone conversation between the President 
and the Vice President; is that correct?
    Voice. Yes.
    Ms. Trump. The conversation was pretty heated.
    Mr. Tonolli. I apologize for being impolite, but do you remember 
what she said her father called him?
    Ms. Radford. The P word.
    Crowd. Bring out Pence! Bring out Pence!
    Ms. Matthews. It was clear that it was escalating and escalating 
quickly.
    Crowd. Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike Pence!
    Ms. Matthews. So, then, when that tweet, the Mike Pence tweet, was 
sent out, I remember us saying that that was the last thing that needed 
to be tweeted at that point. It felt like he was pouring gasoline on 
the fire by tweeting that.
    Voice. They've gained access to the second floor, and I've got 
public about 5 feet from me down below.
    Voice. OK, copy. They are on the second floor. Moving in now. We 
may want to consider getting out and leaving now. Copy?
    White House Security Official. The members of the VP detail at this 
time were starting to fear for their own lives. There were calls to say 
goodbye to family members, so on and so forth.
    Mr. Aguilar. Approximately 40 feet, that's all there was, 40 feet, 
between the Vice President and the mob.
    Mr. Luttig. Donald Trump and his allies and supporters are a clear 
and present danger to American democracy.
    Mr. Harvin. We got derogatory information from OSINT suggesting 
that some very, very violent individuals were organizing to come to 
D.C.
    Ms. Hutchinson. As Mr. Giuliani and I were walking to his vehicles 
that evening, he looked at me and said something to the effect of, 
``Cass, are you excited for the 6th? It's going to be a great day.'' I 
remember looking at him and saying, ``Rudy, could you explain what's 
happening on the 6th?'' And he had responded something to the effect 
of, ``We're going to the Capitol. It's going to be great. The 
President's going to be there. He's going to look powerful.''
    Voice. We were invited by the President of the United States!
    Mr. Barber. He personally asked for us to come to D.C. that day. 
And I thought, for everything he's done for us, if this is the only 
thing he's going to ask of me, I'll do it.
    Mr. Ayres. Well, basically, you know, the President, you know, got 
everybody riled up, told everybody to head on down. So we basically 
were just following what he said.
    Voice. We've lost the line. We've lost the line. All PD, get back.
    Mrs. Luria. Within 15 minutes of leaving the stage, President Trump 
knew that the Capitol was besieged and under attack.
    Vice Chair Cheney. So are you aware of any phone call by the 
President of the United States to the Secretary of Defense that day?
    Mr. Cipollone. Not that I'm aware of, no.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Are you aware of any phone call by the President 
of the United States to the Attorney General of the United States that 
day?
    Mr. Cipollone. No.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Are you aware of any phone call by the President 
of the United States to the Secretary of Homeland Security that day?
    Mr. Cipollone. I am not aware of that, no.
    Mr. George. Did you ever hear the President ask----
    General Kellogg. No.
    Mr. George. [continuing]. For the National Guard?
    General Kellogg. No.
    Mr. George. Did you ever hear the President ask for a law 
enforcement response?
    General Kellogg. No.
    General Milley. You've got an assault on the Capitol of the United 
States of America, and there's nothing? No call? Nothing? Zero?
    Crowd. Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike Pence!
    Ms. Hutchinson. I remember Pat saying something to the effect of, 
``Mark, we need to do something more. They're literally calling for the 
Vice President to be F'ing hung.'' And Mark had responded something to 
the effect of, ``You heard him, Pat. He thinks Mike deserves it. He 
doesn't think they're doing anything wrong.''
    Vice Chair Cheney. Who on the staff did not want people to leave 
the Capitol?
    Mr. Cipollone. On the staff?
    Vice Chair Cheney. In the White House.
    Mr. Cipollone. I can't think of anybody, you know, on that day who 
didn't want people to get out of the Capitol, you know, particularly 
once the violence started. No. I mean----
    Mr. Schiff. What about the President?
    Vice Chair Cheney. Yes.
    Mr. Cipollone. Well, she said the staff, so I answered----
    Vice Chair Cheney. No, I said in the White House.
    Mr. Cipollone. Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. I thought you said who 
else on the staff.
    I can't reveal communications. But, obviously, I think, you know--
yes.
    Mr. Herschmann. I said, ``Good, John. Now I'm going to give you the 
best free legal advice you're ever getting in your life. Get a great 
F'ing criminal defense lawyer. You're gonna need it.''
    Vice Chair Cheney. General Flynn, do you believe in the peaceful 
transition of power in the United States of America?
    General Flynn. The Fifth.
    Voice. We've got another officer unconscious at the Terrace, West 
Terrace.
    President Trump. I don't want to say the election's over. I just 
want to say Congress has certified the results without saying the 
election's over, OK?

    Chairman Thompson. The Chair now recognizes the gentlewoman 
from California, Ms. Lofgren, for an opening statement.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Over the last 18 months, the Select Committee has conducted 
a congressional investigation of enormous scale seeking to 
uncover the depth and breadth of ex-President Trump's multi-
part plan to reverse the lawful outcome of the 2020 
Presidential election. We have compiled an immense volume of 
documents collected from countless individuals, law enforcement 
agencies, and Federal and State authorities.
    Many of our efforts to get the evidence required litigation 
in Federal court, including the U.S. Supreme Court. We have 
taken the testimony of hundreds of witnesses. While we couldn't 
show them all during the hearings, we focused on those who were 
most central, including our ex-President's White House aides, 
his senior Department of Justice officials, and senior members 
of his campaign.
    Based on this assembled evidence, the Select Committee has 
reached a series of specific findings. Now, many of these 
findings pertain to what has been called the ``Big Lie''--the 
enormous effort, led by ex-President Trump, to spread baseless 
accusations and misinformation in an attempt to falsely 
convince tens of millions of Americans that the election had 
been stolen from him.
    Beginning even before the election and continuing through 
January 6th and thereafter, Donald Trump purposely disseminated 
false allegations of fraud in order to aid his effort to 
overturn the 2020 election.
    Ex-President Trump's decision to declare victory falsely on 
election night wasn't a spontaneous decision; it was 
premeditated. The Committee has evidence that ex-President 
Trump planned to declare victory and to unlawfully call for the 
vote-counting to stop and that he told numerous allies about 
his intent in the weeks before the election.
    The Committee found that Mr. Trump raised hundreds of 
millions of dollars with false representations made to his on-
line donors. The proceeds from his fundraising, we have 
learned, have been used in ways that we believe are concerning. 
In particular, the Committee has learned that some of those 
funds were used to hire lawyers.
    We have also obtained evidence of efforts to provide or 
offer employment to witnesses. For example, one lawyer told a 
witness the witness could in certain circumstances tell the 
Committee that she didn't recall facts when she actually did 
recall them. That lawyer also did not disclose who was paying 
for the lawyer's representation, despite questions from the 
client seeking that information. He told her, ``We are not 
telling people where funding is coming from right now.''
    We have learned that a client was offered potential 
employment that would make her ``financially very comfortable'' 
as the date of her testimony approached by entities that were 
apparently linked to Donald Trump and his associates. These 
offers were withdrawn or didn't materialize as reports of the 
content of her testimony circulated. The witness believed this 
was an effort to affect her testimony, and we are concerned 
that these efforts may have been a strategy to prevent the 
Committee from finding the truth.
    Throughout the post-election period, ex-President Trump was 
told repeatedly by his campaign advisors, Government officials, 
and others there was no evidence to support his claims of 
election fraud.
    Even since our last hearing, the Select Committee has 
obtained testimony from new witnesses who have come forward to 
tell us about their conversations with ex-President Trump on 
this topic. Here is one of his senior advisors, Hope Hicks.

    Ms. Hicks [continuing]. Seeing evidence of fraud on a scale that 
would have impacted the outcome of the election. And I was becoming 
increasingly concerned that we were damaging--we were damaging his 
legacy.
    Mr. Wood. What did the President say in response to what you just 
described?
    Ms. Hicks. He said something along the lines of, you know, ``Nobody 
will care about my legacy if I lose, so that won't matter. The only 
things that matters is winning.''

    Ms. Lofgren. Despite all that, he continued to purposely 
and maliciously make false claims, sometimes within a day of 
being told that a particular claim was false and unsupported by 
the evidence.
    By the time the electoral college met to cast its votes on 
December 14, 2020, a number of President Trump's senior staff, 
Cabinet officials, and members of his family were urging him to 
facilitate a peaceful transition to the incoming 
administration. He disregarded their advice, and he continued 
to claim publicly that the election had been stolen from him.
    Numerous State and Federal courts evaluated and rejected 
the Trump campaign's claims of voter fraud, including 11 judges 
appointed by ex-President Trump himself. Many of these courts 
issued scathing opinions criticizing the lack of evidence that 
ex-President Trump and his allies had advanced to support their 
claims.
    Numerous individuals associated with these efforts have 
since acknowledged that they were unable to find sufficient 
evidence of fraud to affect the election results, including in 
testimony to this Select Committee.
    Still, ex-President Trump repeated those false claims and 
tried to convince his supporters the election was stolen. This 
was an attempt to justify overturning the lawful election 
results.
    Donald Trump knowingly and corruptly repeated election 
fraud lies, which incited his supporters to violence on January 
6th. He continues to repeat his meritless claim that the 
election was stolen even today and continues to erode our most 
cherished and shared belief in free and fair elections.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. 
Schiff, for an opening statement.
    Mr. Schiff. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Building on his constant repetition of the Big Lie, 
President Trump engaged in an unprecedented effort to obstruct 
the joint session on January 6th, the proceeding where his 
electoral loss would be certified by Congress.
    This effort began in part in the States, which hold, count, 
and ultimately determine the winners of Presidential elections. 
Many State officials were targeted by President Trump and his 
campaign: the local election workers he accused baselessly of 
election fraud, the State officials he pressured to stop the 
count or to find votes that didn't exist, and the State 
legislative officials he urged to disregard the popular will of 
the voters and their oath of office in order to name him the 
winner instead.
    Here are the Select Committee findings about President 
Trump's State pressure campaign.
    President Trump and his enablers repeatedly pressured State 
officials to take action to overturn the results of the 
election. The most dramatic example of this campaign of 
coercion was the President's January 2, 2021, call to Georgia 
Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger in which the President 
urged the secretary to ``find 11,780 votes'' he needed to 
change the outcome in that State.
    During that call, President Trump again repeated conspiracy 
theories about the election that his own appointees at the 
Department of Justice had already debunked. Trump also made 
what Secretary Raffensperger accurately considered a threat, 
suggesting that Raffensperger and his attorney could be subject 
to criminal prosecution if they didn't follow through with his 
demands.
    Then, in repeated telephone calls and in-person meetings, 
Donald Trump pressured State elections officials and State 
legislators to alter official election results.
    But courageous public servants, including Republicans like 
Rusty Bowers, held firm and refused to put Donald Trump over 
their oath to the Constitution.
    When Donald Trump's pressure campaign did not achieve the 
results he wanted, he oversaw an effort to obtain and transmit 
false electoral college ballots to Congress and the National 
Archives. The false ballots were created by fake Republican 
electors on December 14th, at the same time the actual 
certified electors in those States were meeting to cast their 
votes for President Biden.
    By that point in time, election-related litigation was over 
in all or nearly all of these States, and Trump campaign 
election lawyers realized that the fake slates were 
unjustifiable on any grounds and may be unlawful.
    In spite of these concerns and the concerns of individuals 
in the White House Counsel's Office, President Trump and others 
proceeded with this plan. The Select Committee has developed 
evidence that these intentionally false documents were 
transmitted to multiple officers of the Federal Government and 
were intended to interfere with the proper conduct of the joint 
session, where the existence of so-called ``competing slates'' 
of electors would serve as a pretext for legitimate electoral 
votes to be rejected.
    President Trump repeatedly attacked State and local 
officials who refused to do his bidding, as well as local 
elections workers who he baselessly accused of fraud.
    As Ruby Freeman and the testimony of other elections 
officials so powerfully demonstrated, the people who drew 
President Trump's ire or were the subject of his lies faced 
real-world consequences, including public harassment and death 
threats. Some of these elections workers and officials have 
been forced to leave their homes. Others have been forced to 
leave the jobs they loved.
    Take a listen to Ms. Freeman's story.

    Ms. Freeman. Now I won't even introduce myself by my name anymore. 
I get nervous when I bump into someone I know in the grocery store who 
says my name. I'm worried about who's listening. I get nervous when I 
have to give my name for food orders. I'm always concerned of who's 
around me. I've lost my name, and I've lost my reputation.

    Mr. Schiff. The treatment of Ms. Freeman and her daughter 
Shaye Moss and so many others around the country was callous, 
inhuman, inexcusable, and dangerous. Those responsible should 
be held accountable.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. 
Kinzinger, for an opening statement.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Certainly one of the many important components of our 
Federal Government is the Department of Justice. It is the body 
that is responsible for enforcing our laws and investigating 
criminal wrongdoing.
    For this reason, it is of the utmost importance that our 
Department of Justice operates as a fair and neutral body that 
enforces our Federal laws without fear or without favor.
    It is this critical function that President Trump sought to 
corrupt as he sought to use the Department of Justice to 
investigate and prosecute purported election fraud and to help 
him convince the public that the election was stolen.
    The Select Committee has made the following findings with 
respect to the Department of Justice.
    In the weeks immediately following the 2020 election, 
Attorney General Bill Barr advised President Trump that the 
Department of Justice had not seen any evidence to support 
Trump's theory that the election was stolen by fraud. No 
evidence.
    Over the course of the three meetings in this post-election 
period, Attorney General Barr assured President Trump that the 
Justice Department was properly investigating claims of 
election fraud. He debunked numerous election fraud claims, 
many of which the President would then go on to repeat 
publicly. And he made clear that President Trump was doing ``a 
great, great disservice to the country'' by pursuing them.
    After Attorney General Barr's resignation, President Trump 
requested that the acting leadership of the Department, Jeffrey 
Rosen and Richard Donoghue ``just say the election was corrupt, 
and leave the rest to me and the Republican Congressmen.'' In 
other words, just tell a small lie to put the facade of 
legitimacy on this lie, and the Republican Congressmen and I 
can distort and destroy and create doubt all ourselves.
    Between December 23rd and January 3rd, President Trump 
called or met with them nearly every day and was told 
repeatedly that the Department investigations showed no factual 
support for Trump's fraud allegations. Mr. Rosen and Mr. 
Donoghue told him that the fraud claims were simply untrue.
    As Mr. Rosen and Mr. Donoghue continued to resist, 
President Trump then tried to install a loyalist named Jeffrey 
Clark to lead the Department as Acting Attorney General.
    On several occasions, Clark met with the President, 
apparently along with Representative Scott Perry, without 
authorization, promising to take the actions that Barr, Rosen, 
and Donoghue had refused to take.
    In particular, Mr. Clark intended to send a letter that he 
had drafted with the help of a political appointee that the 
White House installed at DOJ with just weeks left in the 
administration.
    Mr. Clark intended to send the letter to officials in 
numerous States, informing them, falsely of course, that the 
Department had identified ``significant concerns'' about the 
election result in their State and encouraging their State 
legislatures to come into special session to consider 
appointing Trump rather than Biden electors.
    Here is Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue describing 
his reaction to Mr. Clark's proposed letter.

    Mr. Donoghue [continuing]. And drafting letters without the 
knowledge of what the Department had actually done in terms of 
investigations, that he was being reckless. And I recall toward the end 
saying, ``What you are proposing is nothing less than the United States 
Justice Department meddling in the outcome of a Presidential 
election.''

    Mr. Kinzinger. Knowing that existing Department leadership 
would not support his false election claims, President Trump 
offered Mr. Clark the job of Acting Attorney General.
    In a dramatic January 3rd meeting in the Oval Office, 
Rosen, Donoghue, White House Counsel Pat Cipollone, and White 
House lawyer Eric Herschmann strongly objected to the 
appointment of Jeffrey Clark as Acting Attorney General.
    Mr. Clark pleaded his case and offered to send the letter 
that he had drafted. The White House Counsel called the Clark 
letter a ``murder-suicide pact.''
    Numerous White House and Department of Justice lawyers all 
threatened to resign if Mr. Clark was appointed. Donald Trump 
would be leading a graveyard. It was only after the threat of 
mass resignations that President Trump rescinded his offer to 
Mr. Clark.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. 
Aguilar, for an opening statement.
    Mr. Aguilar. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Former President Trump's multi-part plan didn't stop with 
the States or with the Department of Justice. It touched nearly 
every component of our Federal system, ranging from the courts 
to Congress, to his own Vice President, Mike Pence.
    In the weeks before January 6th, Mr. Trump turned to the 
man who had served him loyally for 4 years. He embraced an 
illegal scheme proposed by John Eastman and others, who 
concocted an unfounded legal theory that the Vice President 
could reject Joe Biden's electoral votes during the joint 
session.
    When Vice President Pence and many others, including 
Trump's own lawyer John Eastman, told him, correctly, that this 
was unlawful, former President Trump spearheaded an 
unprecedented pressure campaign to coerce him to do it anyway, 
ultimately culminating in a dangerous threat to Mr. Pence's 
life on January 6th.
    These are the Select Committee's findings with respect to 
the pressure campaign against the Vice President.
    John Eastman admitted in advance of the 2020 election that 
Mike Pence could not lawfully refuse to count official 
electoral votes. But he nevertheless devised a meritless 
proposal that deployed a combination of bogus election fraud 
claims and the fake electoral ballots to say that Mike Pence, 
presiding over the joint session, could reject legitimate 
electoral votes for President-elect Biden.
    But, still, President Trump accepted and repeated Eastman's 
theory and used it to pressure the Vice President to take 
unlawful action. In multiple heated conversations, President 
Trump directly pressured Vice President Pence to adopt the 
Eastman theory and either reject the electors or send them back 
to the State legislatures.
    The Vice President consistently resisted and repeatedly 
told the President that he did not possess the authority to do 
what President Trump directed.
    This culminated in an angry phone call on the morning of 
January 6th between President Trump and Vice President Pence 
during which the former President repeatedly berated Mr. Pence 
by cursing and leveling threats.
    White House staffer Nick Luna was one of the many witnesses 
who heard the call as it happened. Take a listen to Mr. Luna's 
testimony.

    Mr. George. Did you hear any part of the phone call, even if just 
the end that the President was speaking from?
    Mr. Luna. I did, yes.
    Mr. George. All right. And what did you hear?
    Mr. Luna. So, as I was dropping off the note, my memory--I remember 
hearing the word ``wimp.'' Either he called him a wimp--I don't 
remember if he said, ``You are a wimp,'' ``You'll be a wimp.'' ``Wimp'' 
is the word I remember. And something to the effect--this is--the 
wording is wrong--``I made the wrong decision 4 or 5 years ago.''

    Mr. Aguilar. In the face of the Vice President's 
resistance, the former President and others exerted both 
private and public pressure to change his mind. In his speech 
on the Ellipse on the afternoon of January 6th, former 
President Trump told the crowd that Vice President Pence needed 
the ``courage to do what he has to do.''
    Once the riot began, President Trump deliberately chose to 
issue a tweet attacking Mr. Pence, knowing that the crowd had 
already grown violent.
    Almost immediately thereafter, the crowd around the Capitol 
surged, and between 2:30 and 2:35 p.m. the Metropolitan Police 
line on the West Front of the Capitol broke. This was the first 
time in MPD history that a line like this had broken.
    Rioters at the Capitol were heard chanting ``Hang Mike 
Pence'' through the afternoon.
    As a result of this unrest, Vice President Pence was forced 
to flee to a secure location, where he actively coordinated 
with law enforcement and other governmental officials to 
address the on-going violence.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Florida, Mrs. 
Murphy, for an opening statement.
    Mrs. Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Ultimately, President Trump did not succeed in bending 
State and Federal officials to his will. At every turn, State 
officials, the Department of Justice, Mike Pence, and many 
others stood up for the rule of law and resisted the 
President's wishes. In that way, our American institutions held 
after the 2020 election.
    But that did not stop President Trump. Instead, he turned 
to his supporters, those who believed his lies about a stolen 
election. He summoned a crowd to the Nation's capital on 
January 6th, hoping that they would pressure Congress to do 
what he could not do on his own.
    The Select Committee has made the following findings on 
this issue.
    Two years ago today, in the early morning hours of December 
19th, Donald Trump sent a tweet urging his supporters to travel 
to Washington for a protest on January 6th. ``Be there, will be 
wild!'' he tweeted.
    Between December 19th and January 6th, the President 
repeatedly encouraged his supporters to come to Washington.
    The President's December 19th tweet galvanized domestic 
violent extremists, including members of the Oath Keepers, the 
Proud Boys, and organized militia groups. These individuals 
began organizing to come to the capital in large numbers with 
the specific intent to use violence to disrupt the 
certification of the election during the joint session.
    Prior to January 6th, the FBI, Secret Service, U.S. Capitol 
Police, D.C. government, and other law enforcement agencies 
gathered substantial evidence suggesting the risk of violence 
at the Capitol during the joint session. These included 
warnings like the following:
    ``Their plan is to literally kill people. Please, please 
take this tip seriously and investigate further.''
    ``President Trump supporters have proposed a movement to 
occupy Capitol Hill.''
    ``Alert regarding the VP being a dead man walking if he 
doesn't do the right thing.''
    ``I saw several other alerts saying they will storm the 
Capitol if he doesn't do the right thing.''
    In the days leading up to January 6th, President Trump's 
advisors explicitly told him that he should encourage his 
supporters to be peaceful that day. But he refused.
    One witness, Hope Hicks, provided the Committee with 
records of her text messages on January 6th. In one exchange 
with another staffer, he texted her, ``Hey. I know you're 
seeing this. But he,'' referring to President Trump, ``really 
should tweet something about [b]eing NON-violent.''
    ``I'm not there,'' Hicks replied. ``I suggested it several 
times Monday and Tuesday and he refused.''
    When Ms. Hicks came in to provide testimony to the 
Committee, we asked her about this exchange. Her explanation is 
that the ``he'' in this text wasn't the President but, rather, 
it was Eric Herschmann.
    Take a listen to her testimony.

    Mr. Wood. When you wrote, ``I suggested it several times''--and the 
``it'' presumably means that the President say something about being 
non-violent. You wrote, ``I suggested it several times Monday and 
Tuesday and he refused.'' Tell us what happened.
    Ms. Hicks. Sure. I didn't speak to the President about this 
directly, but I communicated to people like Eric Herschmann that it was 
my view that it was important that the President put out some kind of 
message in advance of the event.
    Mr. Wood. And what was Mr. Herschmann's response?
    Ms. Hicks. Mr. Herschmann said that he had made the same, you know, 
recommendation directly to the President and that he had refused.
    Mr. Wood. Just so I understand, Mr. Herschmann said that he had 
already recommended to the President that the President convey a 
message that people should be peaceful on January 6th, and the 
President had refused to do that?
    Ms. Hicks. Yes.

    Mrs. Murphy. The public will be able to review this in the 
transcripts and see the perspective Eric Herschmann gave before 
we took Hope Hicks's testimony.
    Despite having knowledge of the threats of violence 
presented by the crowd gathered on January 6th, President Trump 
gave an incendiary speech, declaring without basis that the 
election had been stolen and encouraging his supporters to 
``fight like hell.''
    During the speech and immediately thereafter, President 
Trump stated his intention to travel to the Capitol with his 
supporters in an effort to influence the joint session.
    The Select Committee has developed evidence indicating that 
President Trump did, in fact, intend to go to the Capitol on 
the afternoon of January 6th and that he repeatedly expressed 
that intention during the afternoon and in the days prior.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Virginia, Mrs. 
Luria, for an opening statement.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    All of President Trump's efforts came to a head on the 
afternoon of January 6th. Standing on the stage of the Ellipse, 
President Trump told tens of thousands of angry supporters that 
the election was stolen, that they had the power to change that 
if they marched to the Capitol, and that they wouldn't have a 
country anymore if the Presidency was taken away him. He told 
them he would be there with them. Then, as the crowd descended 
on the Capitol, President Trump watched it on television.
    Despite pleas from his senior advisors, from lawmakers on 
the Hill, and from his own children, President Trump would not 
issue a public statement instructing his supporters to disperse 
and leave the Capitol.
    Mr. Trump's failures span the period from 1:10 p.m., when 
his speech ended and he instructed his supporters to march to 
the Capitol, to 4:17 p.m., when he finally begrudgingly told 
his supporters to go home.
    For 187 minutes, he actively disregarded his constitutional 
obligation to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. 
As we have established through months of investigation, that is 
because the mob wanted what President Trump wanted: to impede 
the peaceful transition of power.
    These are the Select Committee's findings about President 
Trump's dereliction of duty.
    From the outset of the violence and for several hours that 
followed, people at the Capitol, people inside President 
Trump's administration, elected officials of both parties, 
members of President Trump's own family, and even Fox News 
commentators who were sympathetic to President Trump all tried 
to contact the White House to urge him to do one singular 
thing, the one thing that all of these people immediately 
understood was required: instruct his supporters to leave the 
Capitol.
    The President repeatedly refused pleas, as he watched the 
violence at the Capitol on television.
    During the day, the President never spoke with National 
Guard, the Department of Defense, the Department of Justice, or 
any law enforcement agency. At no point during the day, or any 
other, did he issue any order to deploy any law enforcement 
agency to assist.
    Multiple witnesses, including President Trump's White House 
Counsel, testified to these facts. You heard White House 
employees who had been speaking directly with President Trump 
state that ``he didn't want anything done.''
    The President was making phone calls that afternoon, but 
they weren't to law enforcement officials. Rather, President 
Trump continued to call his lawyer, Rudy Giuliani. Both 
President Trump and Mr. Giuliani spoke with congressional 
leaders, even after the violence had begun, to encourage them 
to continue delaying the session.
    Approximately 3 hours after being informed of the violence 
at the Capitol--hours during which, as our evidence has shown, 
Donald Trump sat in his dining room and watched the violence on 
television--the President released a video statement, in which 
he again repeated that the election was stolen, told his 
supporters at the Capitol that he loved them, and ultimately 
suggested that they disperse.
    This statement had an immediate impact on elements of the 
crowd, many of whom have testified that it led them to depart 
the Capitol.
    At 6:01 p.m., President Trump sent his last tweet of the 
day. He did not condemn the violence. Instead, he attempted to 
justify it.
    ``These are the things and events that happen when a sacred 
landslide election victory is so unceremoniously & viciously 
stripped away,'' he wrote. ``Remember this day forever!''
    There is no doubt that President Trump thought that the 
actions of the rioters were justified. In the days after 
January 6th, he spoke to several different advisors, and in 
those conversations, he minimized the seriousness of the 
attack.
    Here is new testimony from another one of the President's 
senior advisors, Kellyanne Conway.

    Mr. George. You said you talked to the President the next day. Tell 
us about that conversation on the 7th.
    Ms. Conway. Yes. I don't think it was very long. I just said, that 
was just a terrible day, I'm working on a long statement. I said it's 
crazy.
    Mr. George. What did he say?
    Ms. Conway. ``No, these people are upset. They're very upset.''

    Mrs. Luria. In the days following the attack, President 
Trump also expressed 
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 189 (Tuesday, December 6, 2022)]
[House]
[Page H8781]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          DISGRACEFUL RHETORIC

  (Mr. PAYNE asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today, unfortunately, to address the 
horrible anti-American comments made by Donald Trump.
  Recently, the prominent Republican posted that it was time to 
terminate the Constitution. The Constitution is the foundation of our 
country and the backbone of our democracy. It is a brilliant document 
that continues to inspire democratic governments worldwide.
  If a Democrat or I had made these comments, the person would be 
widely condemned and denied any attempt to run for office. But the 
Republicans do the opposite. They give weak denunciations of the 
comments--if any at all. But they refuse to reject Trump in public.
  He rejects our institution, fights to deny our elections, and dines 
with racists. Yet, this is the type of person the Republicans believe 
to be a viable candidate for our highest office.
  It is a disgrace and a national embarrassment.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 137 (Friday, August 19, 2022)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E861]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





  DENOUNCING POLITICAL PERSECUTION, ESPECIALLY THAT OF DR. SIMONE GOLD

                                 ______
                                 

                           HON. PAUL A. GOSAR

                               of arizona

                    in the house of representatives

                        Friday, August 19, 2022

  Mr. GOSAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to denounce political 
persecution.
  As of Tuesday, August 16, 2022, 860 people have been charged with 
crimes for actions on January 6, 2022. A large percentage of these 
people were peaceful protestors who did not even know they were 
violating the law.
  As long as defendants groveled to the judges by renouncing their 
support of Donald Trump and insisting that he made them do it, they 
received plea deals of little or no jail time. If not, you might find 
yourself in jail for seven years, as happened with Guy Reffit, whose 
son the Department of Justice encouraged to turn against his father. 
Another man, activist Brandon Straka, who did not even enter the 
Capitol on January 6th, was given the choice by the FBI to either admit 
to saying an incendiary remark he in fact did not say, or go to trial.
  Perhaps the person most hated by the Deep State was Dr. Simone Gold. 
Not only did she have a problem with massive electoral fraud, she also 
was a leader in combatting COVID-19 misinformation. That is a bad 
twofer. Anyone who dares to speak out against a dangerous, deadly, and 
useless vaccine or abusive and illegal lockdowns that led to countless 
deaths and immeasurable suffering deserves maximum cancellation.
  A judge sentenced her to prison for two months just for trespassing. 
She remained completely peaceful throughout her brief time in the 
Capitol. And now she fears for her safety and has complained of 
terrible treatment by prison officials, as have so many January 6 
defendants--whose constitutional rights to due process and a speedy 
trial have been shredded and annihilated.
  The left gets on its high horse about human rights abuses by the 
likes of Putin and deservedly so. But what about our own secret police 
and rotten justice system who pick and choose who to prosecute based on 
political beliefs? Hillary, Hunter, Peter Strozk, Lisa Page, Andrew 
McCabe, Black Lives Matter and antifa rioters, and those who destroy 
pregnancy care centers are free to egregiously break the law however 
they please. But innocent people like Michael Flynn, Steve Bannon, 
Roger Stone, Donald Trump, and the majority of January 6 defendants 
must go to jail.
  If all protestors who trespassed in D.C. were thrown in a D.C. gulag 
for six months or several years, that would be one thing. Democrat 
activists have invaded the Senate floor and halted official business. 
No one went to jail. Democrat activists illegally stalked and harassed 
conservative Supreme Court justices, and no one went to jail. Indeed, 
the halls of the Capitol have been subjected to leftist sit-ins, 
demonstrations, and other misbehavior for decades, and no one was 
sentenced to months or years in prison. Further, just recently, members 
of a film crew for the left-wing activist Stephen Colbert were caught 
vandalizing a house office and trespassing. They then lied to Capitol 
Police. All charges were dropped and they spent no time in a D.C. 
gulag. But conservative or Trump-supporting protestors who also 
trespassed on federal property have faced the full force of the law. 
This bifurcated treatment is a sign of corruption.
  Our judicial system is broken. The FBI must be abolished. 
Irresponsible and corrupt DOJ officials must be purged, starting with 
Merrick Garland.
  The United States is in an existential crisis between the forces of 
persecution, thuggery, and violence--administered and enforced by an 
unholy alliance of the long arm of the State and left-wing terrorists--
and everyday Americans who want to live their life, raise a family, and 
worship their God. The only question is who will win. And time is 
running out.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 3 (Wednesday, January 5, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S45-S48]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                     Recognizing January 6 Workers

  Madam President, I want to start by thanking my colleagues Leader 
Schumer and Senator Klobuchar for their work to honor the police 
officers who risked their lives to protect this country 1 year ago 
tomorrow.
  In the year since that dark day, we have learned more about all that 
those officers endured from the terrorists who stormed the Capitol--the 
racist slurs, the physical abuse, the mental injuries. We know things 
were so much worse than they appeared in the original reporting as more 
and more details have come out. These terrorists gouged someone's eyes 
out. They killed a Capitol Police officer and injured 140 others. They 
threatened to kill the Vice President. They brought a noose to the 
Capitol and paraded symbols of White supremacy. In fact, the people who 
broke into the office upstairs from my office in the Capitol--we have 
this on film--used flagpoles with Confederate flags and Trump flags 
attached to them. They brought equipment to take hostages.
  It wasn't only Capitol Police officers who endured this attack and 
put their lives on the line serving our Republic on January 6. Workers 
throughout the Capitol risked everything that day, workers who do the 
radio and television broadcast and work in the media center, workers 
who work the floor, workers who clean up, and workers who do food 
service. They often don't get noticed, like the Capitol support staff. 
Every day, Capitol janitorial and maintenance and other workers, 
essential workers, do their jobs with skill and dedication and dignity. 
They have shown up for work during this pandemic.
  Those workers were here on January 6 doing their jobs when the 
insurrectionists, when the rioters, when the--call it what you want--
traitors stormed this building, barging into this Chamber, acting as if 
no one would ever hold them responsible or accountable for their 
violence, for their disregard for American values and for U.S. laws.
  When the rampage was over, we know it was the largely Black and Brown 
custodial maintenance workers who were left to restore dignity to the 
Capitol. Their work, first of all, allowed us to come back and continue 
our work at 8 that night certifying the electoral votes and securing 
our democracy. As we know, domestic terrorists destroyed; Black and 
Brown custodians cleaned up; and maintenance workers, carpenters, 
painters, and union members rebuilt. Today, we honor them.
  Some of the most enduring and moving images of that day are the 
pictures of these workers sweeping up the mess that terrorists made in 
the people's houses.
  That night, after we voted--the Senator from Minnesota was there. We 
were all here voting in this Chamber. After the police and the National 
Guard--the DC Police, the Capitol Police, and others--after they 
cleared the terrorists out of this building, we came back at 8 and 
voted. I spent the night in the basement in my office. I live a 20-
minute walk away. I really didn't want to walk home that night. But I 
walked around about midnight, walked around this building, over in the 
House and the Senate. I saw the destruction. I saw the window right 
upstairs from me, the half-moon window that terrorists, with their 
flagpoles with their Confederate flags and their Trump flags attached, 
broke through.
  When I was back there at midnight that night, already the cleanup 
from the custodians had started, cleaning up after they had been 
threatened. After they had been called names as Black women, as 
immigrant women, after they had been called names by the terrorists, 
they were back there cleaning up. Already, a carpenter had cut a half-
moon piece of plywood and nailed it to that window to keep this 
building safe and keep the elements out.
  We honor those people today. It is what service looks like. It is 
what love of country looks like. It is what the dignity of work looks 
like. It tells you a lot about what is wrong with our economy. These 
essential workers--the people who prepare the food, the people who 
clean up, the people who provide security--the essential workers, like 
so many of their fellow service workers around this country, don't make 
a lot of money. They don't get much attention. They don't get much 
reward. They don't have much power. We simply don't value and respect 
all work the way we should.
  I think of the words of Dr. King. One of my favorite Dr. King quotes 
is this:

       If a man is called to be a street sweeper, he should sweep 
     streets even as Michelangelo painted, or Beethoven composed 
     music, or Shakespeare wrote poetry. He should sweep streets 
     so well that all the hosts of heaven and earth will pause to 
     say, ``Here lived a great street sweeper who did his job 
     well.''

  Dr. King said:

       No work is insignificant. All labor that uplifts humanity 
     has dignity and importance.

  He later said that no job with adequate compensation is menial.
  Look at the words of Pope Francis a few days ago in his Christmas Eve 
address or think back 100 years, 120 years, to Pope Leo, the labor 
Pope, in Rerum Novarum, where he first introduced--at least in my 
view--first introduced the term, I assume in Latin, ``dignity of 
work.''
  Pope Francis, in his Christmas Eve address just a few days ago, said:

       [God] reminds us of the importance of granting dignity to 
     men and women through [their] labour, [and] also . . . 
     granting dignity to human labour itself.

  Those are Pope Francis's words.
  No work is insignificant. All labor has dignity. We ought to treat it 
that

[[Page S46]]

way, starting with honoring these workers.
  Last year, I joined my colleagues in a resolution to honor all the 
workers who risked their lives that day: custodians, maintenance 
workers, Capitol Police officers, journalists, the floor staff, the 
workers in our offices. All of them served this country. All of them 
risked their safety to preserve our democracy. All of them deserve our 
gratitude.
  Today, though, or tomorrow, actually, but I will ask tonight because 
my colleagues--because of Senator Isakson's funeral, many will be there 
tomorrow. I ask my colleagues to join me and Senators Klobuchar and 
Schumer and Senators Casey and Booker in a resolution honoring 
specifically the Capitol janitorial and maintenance staff--all 
essential workers--for their bravery and service to our country on 
January 6.
  One of my favorite parts of this job--and the Presiding Officer knows 
this because we have had these conversations and because of her 
appreciation for work and for the people who work so hard and get so 
little--one of the joys of this job is to do what Abraham Lincoln used 
to do. When staff wanted him to stay in the White House and win the war 
and free the slaves and preserve the Union, Lincoln said: No, I have to 
go out and get my public opinion bath.
  One of the joys of this job is to talk to the workers here just about 
their lives or about what happened on January 6. One custodial worker 
and I were talking. She has been in this country for 30 years. She has 
been a citizen for 20 years, and she has worked in this job for 30 
years. She has been a citizen for 20 years. She and a number of others 
were locked in a room where terrorists were pounding on the walls and 
were screaming racial epithets and were screaming anti-immigrant 
utterances, all of that. Yet she still works here. She was one of the 
ones who had to clean up after them.
  As I said, the terrorists destroyed; the Black and Brown maintenance 
workers cleaned up; and the union trades people rebuilt.
  This resolution that I am going to offer tomorrow reaffirms the 
Senate's commitment to strengthening their rights as workers and 
providing support and resources to ensure their health, well-being, 
safety, and protection from further attacks. Their support should 
include higher pay. It should include collective bargaining rights for 
all of them. It should include paid sick leave and vacation leave. It 
should include comprehensive health insurance with mental health 
resources.
  Don't think that many of these--you all understand that many of these 
police officers, many of these custodial workers, many of the movers 
and the plumbers and the others who were locked in their rooms or 
offices or buildings during this--I am not a mental health expert at 
all, but many of them, I am sure, suffer from issues of nightmares and 
other kinds of anxieties that we need to help them with.
  I hope my colleagues will join me, not as Republicans or Democrats 
but as Americans, as Members of this body. These workers serve us all. 
They allowed us to do our work for America that night. After we 
essentially were run out of this room and were safe for several hours, 
they allowed us, because of their work, to come back here and be safe 
and do our jobs that we took an oath of office on January 3, 2021, to 
do. This building wouldn't function without them.
  No one should have to endure what they did at the hands of domestic 
terrorists.
  To all of the Capitol custodians and service workers who come to work 
in this building each day to ensure our democracy functions, thank you, 
thank you, thank you.
  I have this resolution honoring the Capitol's essential workers, 
applauding them for their service. I had intended to try to pass this 
resolution by unanimous consent tomorrow, but I recognize that many of 
my colleagues are out of town at the funeral honoring one of the really 
good men who served in this body, Johnny Isakson from Georgia.
  I hope we can take this resolution up and pass this commonsense 
resolution next week when we return.
  Thank you.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Connecticut.
  Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam President, I am really pleased and honored to 
follow my colleague from Ohio and to join in supporting the resolution 
that he is offering to pay homage and to express gratitude to the 
essential workers in this building, in the Capitol Complex, in this 
temple of democracy, for all they have done, not only on January 6 but 
in the aftermath of that brutal assault on our democracy.
  We talk in abstract now about the institution and the assault on this 
institution, but the lasting and enduring trauma for those workers that 
we will recognize in this resolution is tremendously important. It is 
important to them, but it is important to us as well that we recognize 
our duty and our obligation to them for the dignity of their work and 
what they did to enable us to come back on that evening, January 6, and 
do our duty--and do it in a bipartisan way, coming together on that 
day.
  We were all witnesses to a brutal crime. We were all witnesses to an 
insurrection and a riot that stands as a dark and terrible milestone--
the anniversary tomorrow of probably the most abhorrent attack on our 
democratic institutions. And all of us who were witnesses can never 
forget the horror of that day--the sheer physicality of the attack, the 
blood in the hallways, the sights and sounds of rioters with bats and 
pipes bearing Trump banners and Confederate flags and seeking to do 
physical harm to us and to kill the Vice President. That kind of 
physical, brutal, cruel attack, with the hope--in fact, intent--of 
killing and injuring, had its effect. In fact, people died.
  Our Capitol Police bravely defended us, with determination and 
courage, and so did many other heroes that day--the National Guard and 
the DC Police. But let us never forget that mob was called here to this 
very Chamber by the former President in a cynical bid to keep himself 
in power through a coup that would subvert the will of the people on 
election day. And we were here--we were all standing and then sitting 
at our desks when we were rushed from the Chamber because of the threat 
of physical assault on us.
  In the end, their efforts were thwarted. Congress certified the 
election result that night as planned. We were undeterred, undaunted by 
the violent and deadly attack on the Capitol and our democracy.
  But that day was not a one-off. It was not an isolated or aberrant 
incident. In fact, it was a symptom and a symbol of a deeper, 
destructive violence of violent extremism--a virus of domestic 
terrorism that continues to infect our Nation; in fact, the most 
persistent and lethal threat to our national internal security.
  According to the intelligence community and the FBI, it is violent 
extremism and White supremacy. That attack left scars and wounds that 
remain unhealed, the lives that were lost, and many of our staff, many 
of those maintenance workers, many of the cafeteria and janitorial 
staff struggle with lingering trauma from the violence that they faced 
on that day.
  The attack reminded us of how fragile and in danger our democratic 
institutions are when our leaders, when we as leaders, fail to protect 
them. The mob that assaulted our Capitol was fueled by the Big Lie--the 
baseless falsehood that massive fraud occurred during the 2020 
election.
  That Big Lie was propagated and supported by the President and his 
enablers, and they have continued to fuel those delusions. Donald Trump 
has incited continually the kind of falsehoods that lead to a sharp 
rise in threats against lawmakers in the Capitol here and a higher 
comfort level with violence at every level--in school boards, in 
statehouses.
  The Big Lie has now become a pretense. It has become a pretense for 
some Republican leaders and State governments across the country to 
pass legislation making it harder to vote--meaning that fewer people 
have fewer times and fewer places to cast their vote.
  At least 19 States have passed 34 new laws that restrict voting 
rights based on that Big Lie--the bogus, false claim of fraud. And 
Republicans in a number of States are vesting the power to overturn 
election results--literally, to deny the results of the vote count 
rather

[[Page S47]]

than respecting the will of the people, whether it is the vote canvass 
boards or legislative committees or other State officials having the 
power to strike down and overturn the results by refusing to certify 
them or literally disregarding them.
  All of this voter suppression is poisonous. It is toxic to our 
democracy. And we have an obligation, on this solemn anniversary of 
that horrific attack, to recommit ourselves to holding accountable 
those domestic terrorists and violent extremists who stormed the 
Capitol and hunted us--lawmakers and others--ransacked the halls that 
we regard with so much reverence, defaced and debased not just the 
building but the concept of democracy. And we should pursue not only 
prosecutions against the 700 or 1,000 people who can be held criminally 
responsible for defacing the Capitol or illegally entering or other 
acts of violence but everyone who aided and abetted them. They must be 
held accountable, no matter what their rank or their office, no matter 
how high the facts and the law will go. I urge the Department of 
Justice to pursue them, to prosecute them, to make sure that they are 
held accountable.
  We also need to fortify those institutions. And that is why passing 
the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement 
Act have to be among our priorities and changing the rules to make that 
possible.
  My colleagues and I will bring to the Senate floor for a vote in the 
coming weeks, no later than January 17, those measures in an effort to 
change the rules to enable their passage. We need to do whatever is 
necessary to pass those measures, including limiting the filibuster.
  There is a direct through line from the Big Lie in the January 6 
assault, incited by Donald Trump, to violent extremism and domestic 
terrorism, to voter suppression and the overturning of elections, 
eventually to the destruction of our democracy. During the peaceful 
transition of power that eventually did take place last January, 
President Biden reminded us that a better world is not something that 
is given to us; it requires hard work. Unity is not inevitable; it is 
achievable through what we do to make it possible. Democracy is not a 
spectator sport.
  The values and norms and institutions of our democracy are fragile, 
as threatened now as they are precious, and they depend on people 
fighting for them in times of adversity. And truly now we are in a time 
of adversity.
  What haunts me, as I think back on January 6, is how close we came to 
losing our democracy, how close we came to shattering the traditions 
and norms--much as the windows of this building were shattered--and how 
a few people continue to believe they could demagogue and enable Trump 
to stage that coup.
  There is no forgetting what some of our colleagues did. There is no 
denying it. But we have sought to work together because we come here 
and we are sent here for a common purpose, which is to meet the needs 
of Americans, especially in a time of pandemic and economic hardship.
  This past year has truly been one of hardship and heartbreak for so 
many. And as we think back to that day, a year ago, we need to redouble 
our determination to hold dear the democratic values and institutions 
that mean elected representatives truly represent the people. That is 
what elections do. That is why every vote should count and every vote 
must count. And that is the purpose of the Freedom to Vote Act and the 
John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.
  We have our part to do. We need to do it. And I hope my colleagues 
will not only relive and remember but act on it--the common purpose of 
that day when we came back to count the vote--to make sure that we can 
come together again not just to honor the people who enable us to do it 
but also to honor the people of America who elect us to do it.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Connecticut.


                               January 6

  Mr. MURPHY. Madam President, why January 6? Why were thousands of 
Trump supporters here in Washington on that specific date, January 6? 
They were here on January 6 because that was the last possible day that 
Donald Trump and his followers could overturn the election in which Joe 
Biden had just beaten the sitting President soundly--81 million votes 
to 74 million votes. The gap in the electoral college was much bigger 
on a percentage basis, 306 to 232.
  But Trump and his followers decided that they were not going to just 
give up power just because their candidate lost an election. And their 
decision to put power ahead of the rule of law is, frankly, totally 
understandable.
  Over the course of human existence, thousands of second-place 
finishers, either through election or by the dynamics of power 
succession, have refused to bend to the rules.
  Most recently, Russia briefly flirted with democracy until Vladimir 
Putin and his cronies rigged the rules to set him up in power 
permanently. And throughout history, many slighted Princes or Generals 
have just chosen to seize power, through force or coercion, if they 
couldn't get it through the standing rules. Wanting power and willing 
to do anything to get power is as old as civilization. And that is why 
all those people broke into the Capitol a year ago tomorrow. They were 
called to Washington by President Trump to pressure Congress and State 
legislators and Vice President Pence to suspend the rules of 
succession, void the election, and install Donald Trump as President, 
even though he lost. Let's not pretend that anything else happened that 
day.

  Senators Cruz and Hawley and many, many other Republicans were, on 
January 6, trying to get Congress to delay the certification of 
electors to give Trump more time to overturn the will of the voters. 
The rioters came to the Capitol to use violence as a last resort to try 
to pressure Congress to adopt the Cruz-Hawley plan. They stormed the 
building, and many of them were explicit when they were here that day, 
that they were inside the building to support President Trump, to 
support Senator Cruz. By the end of the day, dozens were killed or 
badly injured.
  It wasn't a spontaneous random act of mass violence. It was a 
coordinated attempt to use violence, or at least the threat of violence 
for many, to void the 2020 election and install Donald Trump as an 
unelected leader of the United States of America.
  History has seen this play a million times before.
  But I think here in the Senate, we often get lulled into a little bit 
of a sense of complacency because the last vestiges of the pre-Trump 
era of the Republican Party still exist here in the Senate. In the 
Senate, only seven Republicans voted for Senators Cruz and Hawley's 
attempt to void Joe Biden's victory. And Senator McConnell and some 
others here said the right thing that day and the days afterward.
  Behind closed doors, many of our veteran Republican colleagues often 
whispered to us how awful and vulgar the Trump rioters are and how 
dearly they support the rule of law. But almost never do those 
Republican colleagues say those things out loud because the new 
mainstream of the Republican Party--the Trump Republican Party--does 
not believe that Joe Biden won the 2020 election. Pick your conspiracy 
theory, but 7 out of 10 Republicans--literally, tens of thousands of 
Americans--believe that somehow Pakistani intelligence operatives or 
Italian satellites or Venezuelan communists were involved in secretly 
switching millions of votes from Donald Trump to Joe Biden.
  But maybe more importantly, what leads these Republicans to believe 
these wild conspiracy theories is a more insidious belief, a belief 
that if a Democrat wins an election, it must be, by definition, 
illegitimate. That is why this many Republicans believed Joe Biden 
didn't win, even though they have zero evidence to back up this claim. 
They don't need evidence because they just believe the Democrats are 
evil, that Democrats are illegitimate in governance. And if Democrats 
win, it just cannot be allowed to stand. Defeating Democrats is, to the 
Trump Republican Party, more important than maintaining democracy.
  We know this because some of the most popular and revered national 
Republicans are calling openly for the suspension of democracy if 
democracy

[[Page S48]]

keeps electing Democrats. Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene called 
for States with Republican Governors to disallow people from voting if 
they showed an inclination to support Democrats. Our colleague, Senator 
Rand Paul, said efforts to convince people to vote--if those votes 
resulted in Democrats winning--should be illegal.
  Sensible Senate Republicans--the ones who whisper the sensible things 
quietly to us here on the floor of the Senate Chamber--will claim that 
Marjorie Taylor Greene is an outlier, a fringe character, but she is 
exactly the opposite. She is the mainstream. She doesn't believe Joe 
Biden won the 2020 election, just like 7 out of 10 Republican voters. 
The fact that she is willing to say the quiet things out loud, it 
doesn't make her fringe; it makes her royalty. The best attended 
Republican event in my State since the 2020 election was an event 
headlined by Marjorie Taylor Greene.
  She and Rand Paul and their ilk are the Republican Party right now. 
They are the healthy trunk of the tree. Sensible Senate Republicans who 
believe Joe Biden is a legitimate President are the dead limbs, bound 
to fall off soon in a slight wind.
  The mainstream of today's Republican Party believes that beating Joe 
Biden and other Democrats is just more important than preserving 
democracy. So that is why they are methodically working to clean up 
their mistakes from 2020. They couldn't declare Joe Biden's win 
illegitimate because they just weren't ready on January 6. That is what 
January 6 was about, an attempt to postpone the certification of 
electors so they could get ready.
  Well, in 2022 and 2024, they are going to be ready. At the heart of 
this plan is an attempt to just make it a whole lot harder for 
Democrats to vote by eliminating voting sites in Democratic 
neighborhoods or eliminating days to vote--days that typically 
Democrats vote on.
  But Republicans are also preparing a secret weapon--a backup plan--if 
on election night, their attempts to depress Democratic turnout don't 
work out and a Democratic candidate for Governor or Senate or President 
still wins. And this backup plan is all about changing who counts the 
votes. It used to be that even in Republican-majority States, Democrats 
had a role in counting the votes, either through bipartisan panels or 
through the ability for cities and counties to choose their own 
election officials, which often meant that in Democratic counties you 
had Democrats in charge of counting votes and in Republican counties 
you had Republicans in charge of counting votes. This has been a 
longstanding foundation of our democracy, making sure that no one party 
had the monopoly on vote counting.
  If both parties are engaged in the process, there is a lot more 
incentive for both sides to play it safe and play it straight--but no 
more. In Republican-controlled State after State, the rules are being 
changed to put Republicans and only Republicans in charge of counting 
the votes and, more consequently, deciding which votes count.
  Trump and his followers are making sure that only Republicans who are 
100 percent loyal to Trump will be the chosen few Republicans in charge 
of vote counting.
  Everybody has heard that phone call from 2020 in which President 
Trump personally lobbies the Georgia secretary of state to disqualify 
just enough Democratic votes in order to shift the State's electors to 
Trump. ``I just want to find 11,780 votes,'' Trump pleads in that phone 
call. During that hour-long call, he makes it exactly clear what he 
wants. He wants 11,780 or more Democratic votes to be disqualified 
through vague made-up claims of fraud in order to flip the election. He 
tells you exactly what he wants on that phone call: votes to be 
disqualified on zero basis of fraud in order to flip the election to 
him.
  The new State laws and the purge of straight shooters like the 
Georgia secretary of state from the party will make sure that in 2022 
or 2024, if an election is close enough to flip to Republicans, the 
obstacles that were in place in 2020 will be gone.
  Now, I know that every Republican Senator, and even a few Democratic 
Senators, think this scenario that I just outlined is hyperbolic. They 
think it is a scare tactic. But why would you think that? Trump and his 
allies aren't even trying to hide what they did or what they are doing. 
Trump lost the election. He lost the election by 7 million votes, and 
he didn't care. He did everything in his power, including using 
violence, to try to stay in power, despite the fact that he lost. Since 
then, he has cheerled all these changes in State laws.
  Do any of you really think that he is doing this because he believes 
in good governance or clean elections? Of course, not. He has told you 
in words, in deeds, over and over, what his goal is, and his goal is to 
achieve power, whether or not he actually wins the election. He is not 
hiding it. His supporters, leaders of the Republican Party, are now 
openly calling for States to strip from Democrats, and Democrats only, 
the right to vote or the right to campaign for election.
  This is all happening in front of your eyes, out in the open, right 
now. And only we--the 100 of us--have the ability to stop this. January 
6 was just a preview. It was what happens because Trump and his minions 
hadn't done the necessary planning ahead to steal the election. They 
panicked, and they brought violence upon this building.
  They may not need a physical rebellion in 2022 or 2024 because they 
will have changed the rules to make sure that Republicans loyal to 
Trump are installed in power, regardless of whether they win or lose 
the election.
  None of us are helpless here in the U.S. Senate. We can pass laws 
that take away from States the power to disenfranchise any voters or 
the ability to put only one party in charge of vote counting.
  A few of my Democratic Senate colleagues think that they are saving 
the Senate by preserving Republicans' right to stop these reforms. They 
are wrong. If we don't take steps right now to stop Trump's plan, there 
won't be a Senate left to protect. That is not hyperbole. If the loser 
of an election for the U.S. Senate gets seated as a Member of this body 
in 2023, then our democracy is effectively dead.
  It is time we started actually listening to what Trump Republicans 
are telling us over and over again, out loud, that they are getting 
ready to do. They have made their choice, and they have chosen power 
over democracy.
  I get it. It is always easier to do nothing and hope that the threat 
will just go away--just shut the door, box your ears, cover your eyes, 
and hope for the best. But we are the U.S. Senate. We are the ones that 
are put on the watch. We are the ones that are supposed to meet the 
threat head-on and stop it.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Connecticut.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 151 (Tuesday, September 20, 2022)]
[House]
[Page H7971]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        WE MUST NEVER BE ENEMIES

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. McClintock) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, as the tensions of the Civil War reached 
a boiling point, President Lincoln vainly reached out to Democrats with 
these words: ``We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be 
enemies.''
  The contrast with Mr. Biden's September 1 speech in Philadelphia is 
jarring. In it, and many remarks since, Mr. Biden clearly addresses the 
74 million Americans who voted for Donald Trump as enemies who 
``threaten the very foundation of our Republic.'' He condemned us as 
``extremists'' who ``do not respect the Constitution,'' and who ``do 
not believe in the rule of law'' and who ``refuse to accept the results 
of a free election.'' In other forums, he has called us ``semi-
fascists.''
  Mr. President, we revere our Constitution and the structure of 
individual liberty that it was designed to protect. We do not 
understand how a government established under that Constitution could 
use the FBI to pressure social media platforms to censor and suppress 
free speech or to intimidate parents concerned about their school 
boards with threat tags or to instruct its field offices to regard 
anyone who displays our founding American flag as a political 
extremist.
  Mr. President, we revere the rule of law and our Nation's promise of 
equal justice under law. We do not understand how our immigration laws 
can simply be ignored as millions of foreign nationals illegally enter 
our country. We do not understand how a dispute over records justifies 
an armed raid on a former President who is also a political rival.
  We do not understand how public health officials can order our 
schools and businesses closed or suspend our fundamental rights to 
worship and assemble with no vote of the people's Representatives. We 
do not understand how obvious influence peddling by the son of a 
President can be ignored for years.
  Mr. President, of course we accept the results of a free election, 
but we do not understand how the safeguards to protect the integrity of 
our elections can be torn down to benefit one party. Replacing in-
person election day voting with mail-in ballots, ballot harvesting, 
month-long voting, accepting ballots after election day, printing 
ballots on home computers--all of these changes undermine public 
confidence in the process that is essential to democracy.
  We wonder how you can call MAGA candidates a fundamental threat to 
our Republic while your party spends millions of dollars to nominate 
them when you believe it may help you in November.
  Mr. President, we can condemn all forms of violence and especially 
political violence in the strongest possible terms. The riot at the 
Capitol on January 6 was a disgrace and an abomination that you are 
right to condemn, and we join you in doing so.
  But we don't understand how you can at the same time turn a blind eye 
to prosecuting the political violence that burned our cities the year 
before or how you can refuse to enforce the laws that protect our 
Supreme Court Justices from intimidation at their own homes.
  Mr. President, we, too, fear for our democracy. We fear armed 
bureaucracies that seem increasingly disconnected from the results of 
our elections. We remember that the IRS singled out ordinary Americans 
because of their political views, yet no one was held accountable, and 
now we are adding 87,000 new agents to that bureaucracy.
  We fear arbitrary changes in our election laws calculated to skew 
results. We fear an executive branch that is increasingly taking over 
the legislative powers of Congress and judicial powers of the courts. 
We fear the powers of government wielded by officials who view half of 
our people as dangers, threats, and extremists--your words, Mr. 
President.

  Lincoln spoke of the mystic chords of memory tracing back to the 
founding of our Nation that must hold us together as Americans. As 
friends and not enemies. Yet we see these chords increasingly strained 
by an alien ideology that seems hostile to the flag, the principles, 
and the heritage of our Nation.
  We have only one President, Mr. President, and that is you. I didn't 
vote for you, and I won't vote for you again, but you are still my 
President. And the 74 million Americans who voted for Donald Trump are 
still your fellow citizens.
  As the person most responsible for the policies we now live with and 
the future that is unfolding before us, I ask you to engage us as a 
friend and not an enemy. We must not be enemies.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are again reminded to address their 
remarks to the Chair and not to a perceived viewing audience.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 133 (Saturday, August 6, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4206-S4207]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO NORMAN LEAR

  Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, a remarkable American marked his 100th 
birthday last month. Marcelle and I were delighted to be able to wish 
Norman Lear our best on this milestone.
  His achievements throughout his impactful life have broken important 
new ground at just about every turn. We all know Norman's credits in 
television, such as ``All in the Family,'' ``The Jeffersons,'' and 
``Maude.'' They helped shape 20th century American culture.
  Norman's influence on America did not start in television. He was an 
U.S. Army Air Force pilot in World War II, flying more than 50 combat 
missions over Italy and Germany, and his heroism garnered the Air Medal 
with four oak leaf clusters.
  Norman's patriotism and public service continued throughout his 
television career. He addressed pressing social issues in ways others 
were not willing to do, touching hearts, and changing lives. The core 
of his message was always to bring people together on common ground, an 
idea which is so desperately needed today in all facets of our culture 
and media.
  He founded People For The American Way, to champion American ideals 
that often were under fire or diminished by apathy.
  Norman Lear has always understood that more things unite us than 
divide us as Americans, and to quote him, ``we are all in this life 
together.''
  I was moved by his reflections, published in the New York Times on 
July 27, 2022, his 100th birthday, and ask unanimous consent to have 
them printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                [From the New York Times, July 27, 2022]

  On My 100th Birthday, Reflections on Archie Bunker and Donald Trump

                            (By Norman Lear)

       Well, I made it. I am 100 years old today. I wake up every 
     morning grateful to be alive.
       Reaching my own personal centennial is cause for a bit of 
     reflection on my first century--and on what the next century 
     will bring for the people and country I love. To be honest, 
     I'm a bit worried that I may be in better shape than our 
     democracy is.
       I was deeply troubled by the attack on Congress on Jan. 6, 
     2021--by supporters of former President Donald Trump 
     attempting to prevent the peaceful transfer of power. Those 
     concerns have only grown with every revelation about just how 
     far Mr. Trump was willing to go to stay in office after being 
     rejected by voters--and about his ongoing efforts to install 
     loyalists in positions with the power to sway future 
     elections.
       I don't take the threat of authoritarianism lightly. As a 
     young man, I dropped out of college when the Japanese 
     attacked Pearl Harbor and joined the U.S. Army Air Forces. I 
     flew more than 50 missions in a B-17 bomber to defeat fascism 
     consuming Europe. I am a flag-waving believer in truth, 
     justice and the American way, and I don't understand how so 
     many people who call themselves patriots can support efforts 
     to undermine our democracy and our Constitution. It is 
     alarming.
       At the same time, I have been moved by the courage of the 
     handful of conservative Republican lawmakers, lawyers and 
     former White House staffers who resisted Mr. Trump's 
     bullying. They give me hope that Americans can find 
     unexpected common ground with friends and family whose 
     politics differ but who are not willing to sacrifice core 
     democratic principles.
       Encouraging that kind of conversation was a goal of mine 
     when we began broadcasting ``All in the Family'' in 1971. The 
     kinds of topics Archie Bunker and his family argued about--
     issues that were dividing Americans from one another, such as 
     racism, feminism, homosexuality, the Vietnam War and 
     Watergate--were certainly being talked about in homes and 
     families. They just weren't being acknowledged on television.
       For all his faults, Archie loved his country and he loved 
     his family, even when they called him out on his ignorance 
     and bigotries. If Archie had been around 50 years later, he 
     probably would have watched Fox News. He probably would have 
     been a Trump voter. But I think that the sight of the 
     American flag being used to attack Capitol Police would have 
     sickened him. I hope that the resolve shown by 
     Representatives Liz Cheney and Adam Kinzinger, and their 
     commitment to exposing the truth, would have won his respect.
       It is remarkable to consider that television--the medium 
     for which I am most well-known--did not even exist when I was 
     born, in 1922. The internet came along decades later, and 
     then social media. We have seen that each of these 
     technologies can be put to destructive use--spreading lies, 
     sowing hatred and creating the conditions for 
     authoritarianism to take root. But that is not the whole 
     story. Innovative technologies create new ways for us to 
     express ourselves, and, I hope, will allow humanity to learn 
     more about itself and better understand one another's ideas, 
     failures and achievements. These technologies have also been 
     used to create connection, community and platforms for the 
     kind of ideological sparring that might have drawn Archie to 
     a keyboard. I can only imagine the creative and constructive 
     possibilities that technological innovation might offer us in 
     solving some of our most intractable problems.
       I often feel disheartened by the direction that our 
     politics, courts and culture are taking. But I do not lose 
     faith in our country or its future. I remind myself how far 
     we have come. I think of the brilliantly creative people I 
     have had the pleasure to work with in entertainment and 
     politics, and at People for the American Way, a progressive 
     group I co-founded to defend our freedoms and build a country 
     in which all people benefit from the blessings of liberty. 
     Those encounters renew my belief that Americans will find 
     ways to build solidarity on behalf of our values, our country 
     and our fragile planet.
       Those closest to me know that I try to stay forward-
     focused. Two of my favorite words are ``over'' and ``next.'' 
     It's an attitude that has served me well through a long life 
     of ups and downs, along with a deeply felt appreciation for 
     the absurdity of the human condition.
       Reaching this birthday with my health and wits mostly 
     intact is a privilege. Approaching it with loving family, 
     friends and creative collaborators to share my days has 
     filled me with a gratitude I can hardly express.
       This is our century, dear reader, yours and mine. Let us 
     encourage one another with visions of a shared future. And 
     let us bring all the grit and openheartedness and creative 
     spirit we can muster to gather together and build that 
     future.

[[Page S4207]]

  

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 46 (Tuesday, March 15, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1159-S1161]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                                Ukraine

  Mr. President, moving to a different topic, what does courage look 
like? What does the face of courage look like? Well, we see it every 
day on television out of Ukraine. We see individuals leaving their 
regular lives, grabbing a rifle to defend their nation, and being 
prepared to die in the process. That is the face of courage.
  We see the face of courage in the President of Ukraine, an 
extraordinary individual, who once was a rising standup comedian and 
now is a rising standup President for his nation of Ukraine, risking 
his life every day to stay in Kyiv and to be there to inspire his 
people to resist Putin's barbaric invasion of that country.
  We are going to see that tomorrow in the joint session of Congress. 
It is the first Zoom joint session of Congress that I have ever been in 
attendance, and I am glad we are doing it. For the last several weeks, 
I have been in touch

[[Page S1160]]

through Zoom conference calls with President Zelenskyy. He is a 
courageous man.
  But courage is not limited to Ukraine. An event occurred yesterday in 
Moscow which bears our approval and consideration. On state-run 
television in Moscow, a woman was reading the propaganda that was on 
the show, when an employee of that same channel burst on to the set and 
interrupted the news broadcast.
  Her name is--and I am going to try to pronounce her Russian name 
here--Marina Ovsyannikova--Marina Ovsyannikova. That is her, standing 
there holding a sign saying ``no war.''
  She was wearing a yellow and blue necklace, the colors of Ukraine.
  And this woman, an actual editor at Channel One in Moscow, shouted:

       Stop the war. No to war.

  Their sign says:

       Don't believe the propaganda. They are lying to you here.

  It was signed in English:

       Russians against war.

  Now, this might have been something just viewed as a disruption, but 
in Russia under Putin, her actions constitute a crime.
  What has happened to her? Well, we don't know. She disappeared 
shortly after this appearance on television.
  Under a new law, she could be sentenced to up to 15 years in prison 
for using the word ``war'' to describe Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
  But she was unbowed. Before her protest, she recorded a video which 
has been released through human rights group. I want to read for you 
what she said in this video:

       Regrettably, for a number of years, I worked on Channel One 
     and worked on Kremlin propaganda. I am very ashamed of this 
     right now.

  She said:

       Ashamed that I was allowed to tell lies from the television 
     screen. Ashamed that I allowed the zombification of the 
     Russian people. We were silent in 2014 when this was just 
     beginning. We did not go out to protest when the Kremlin 
     poisoned [opposition leader Alexei] Navalny.''

  She continued:

       We are just silently watching this anti-human regime and 
     now the whole world has turned away from us.

  She told her countrymen and women:

       Only we have the power to stop all this madness. Go to the 
     protests. Don't be afraid of anything. They can't imprison us 
     all.

  I believe that if more ordinary Russians knew the truth about what 
Vladimir Putin is doing in Ukraine, they would join her protest.
  Russian media aren't reporting the truth: that Russia has lost more 
soldiers in the first 20 days of its invasion of Ukraine than America 
lost in two wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. And Russian media aren't 
reporting on Russia's war crimes in Ukraine, like the horrific shelling 
last week of a children's and maternity hospital in Mariupol.
  Yesterday, we learned that the injured woman on the stretcher in this 
photo had died, as had her baby. It was a type of outrage which the 
American people will never forget and shouldn't. This was an 
intentional target, this maternity hospital, by Putin. He has bombed 
health clinics and hospitals across Ukraine. That is the type of person 
he is. That is the type of war he wages. That is the type of war 
criminal he is. Every one of these attacks is a violation of 
international law.
  At least three facilities that serve women and children have been 
subject to attack, and innocent civilians have been killed. Throughout 
Ukraine, continued explosions and the threat of shelling have forced 
hospital staff to move critically ill children and other patients into 
bomb shelters in the basements. Children suffering from cancer, wartime 
injuries, and other serious conditions have been forced to move to 
western Ukraine by bus and train.
  Throughout Ukraine, critical medications--insulin, cancer drugs, and 
other infusions--are in short supply, but the world is responding. We 
have seen an outpouring of revulsion against Putin and his war crimes. 
But we have also seen an outpouring of compassion, as governments and 
ordinary citizens step forward to aid Ukraine.
  Last Wednesday, a group of nine doctors and nurses from the Chicago 
area flew to Poland to volunteer to help Ukrainians fleeing the war. 
They brought with them 167 suitcases filled with medicines and medical 
equipment.
  Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, IL, donated nearly 
$500,000 in equipment--all paid for in donations raised in just 72 
hours.
  The group included Ukrainian Americans, Lithuanian Americans, Polish 
Americans, Syrian Americans, and Pakistani Americans. The trip was 
organized by a nonprofit group called MedGlobal. It was founded by a 
man who is my friend, and I am proud to say that, an amazing Syrian-
American doctor named Dr. Zaher Sahloul.
  Over the years, this organization has taken medical missions to 
Syria, Burma, and other places torn by the conflicts that do emerge in 
these areas.
  On this trip, the doctors and nurses spent 2 days in Lviv, providing 
medical care alongside Ukrainian doctors. They then returned to the 
Polish side of the border to provide aid to refugees in local 
hospitals.
  Let me say a word about the refugees who are currently inside Ukraine 
and leaving Ukraine. The estimate now is that a nation with a 
population of 40 million, Ukraine, has more than 3 million refugees. 
Let me put that in perspective for a moment. Three million refugees in 
a matter of 20 days of war--can you imagine? If it were the United 
States and a similar proportion of the population, it would mean moving 
the population of the State of Texas out of the United States in 3 
weeks. That is what is happening because of the terrible war and 
invasion of Vladimir Putin.
  Providing medical assistance doesn't stop with what I have read into 
the Record. Chicago is also blessed with one of the finest pediatric 
hospitals in America, Lurie Children's Hospital. Lurie Children's has 
shipped 1\1/4\ tons--1\1/4\ tons--of medical supplies and medical 
equipment to Ukraine.
  Staff at Lurie Children's are now exploring with Federal officials 
how they might help bring some of Ukraine's most critically ill 
children to the United States for needed medical treatment. The 
hospital spokesman called me last week to say that she was initiating 
an effort nationwide in the United States to ask every 
children's hospital to pitch in. If there are kids in Ukraine or out of 
Ukraine now as refugees who are in desperate need of medical care, 
America is going to be there.

  I am so proud of Lurie Children's and all the other children's 
hospitals across the United States. They are exploring the same 
opportunity and challenge. I applaud America's children's hospitals for 
answering the call over the next several days to provide medical 
support for pediatric patients in critical need. I urge our Federal 
Agencies to assist in logistical challenges. Together, we can save 
these children's lives.
  Tomorrow morning, a truly heroic leader, Ukrainian President 
Volodymyr Zelenskyy, will address a virtual joint session of Congress. 
He will ask Congress and the American people to stand with Ukraine, to 
defend democracy and human dignity and to bring this horrific war to an 
end. We must answer that call. This fight is not Ukraine's alone; this 
is a fight for democracy and the right of people to choose their own 
leaders, decide their own destiny.
  I will close with these thoughts--one from Garry Kasparov, a chess 
grandmaster, Russian expatriate, and fierce critic of Vladimir Putin.
  Yesterday, Garry Kasparov tweeted:

       Letting Putin crush Ukraine and murder thousands of 
     innocents in a European war of conquest will redefine the 
     world order. So would stopping him. We choose by action or 
     inaction which world we want to live in.

  America should choose to stand with Ukraine.
  Slava, Ukraini.
  One last point. Zelenskyy made a very important observation when it 
came to Putin and his future. I don't know if there are enough brave 
Russians to stand up to him--I hope there are--to depose him from power 
in that country, but if they don't, we are naive to believe that 
Ukraine is the end of his conquest agenda. He wants to restore the 
Soviet Union, and many of us know what that means--the Baltics. It 
means Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia, as President Zelenskyy reminded 
us, would be the next target. They are small. They are near Russian 
populations. They are near Belarus, which has become a pawn of Vladimir 
Putin, and they are vulnerable.
  The only thing standing between the Baltics and subjugation by 
Vladimir Putin is the document known as the

[[Page S1161]]

NATO charter. It is an agreement of an alliance where every nation 
under that flag will stand to defend the other under attack.
  Most of us don't remember, but after 9/11/2001, the NATO allies came 
together and said that the United States had been attacked under 
article 5 and that they were willing to defend us if the terrorism 
continued. That is the kind of solidarity which we needed then and 
which the world needs now.
  The NATO alliance was, unfortunately, weakened under the last 
President, but they have come around now to become a powerful force.
  Just last week on Thursday, 10 of the Ambassadors from European 
nations gathered in a room and talked to us about their solidarity 
behind our effort to support Ukraine. It was a positive meeting, a good 
feeling, and I am glad that the NATO forces understand their 
responsibility and are prepared to defend these countries that are 
involved.
  There is one last point I want to make because it is so outrageous, I 
believe it should be reported. The question really comes down to an 
interview of Donald Trump, the former President of the United States, 
by Jeanine Pirro on FOX television. He called Putin's invasion of 
Ukraine a project to rebuild a Soviet empire that had been, in the 
words of Donald Trump, ``full of love.'' Full of love, a Soviet empire?
  Unfortunately, the former President has no knowledge of history, nor 
does he have any understanding as to what happened to the countries 
under the subjugation of a Soviet empire, how they were forcefully 
brought into that alliance, which they never wanted to be part of. He 
obviously doesn't recall that 4 million Ukrainians died in the famines 
of the 1930s under Joseph Stalin's Soviet rule.
  At one point, Ronald Reagan called the Soviet Union an evil empire. 
For Donald Trump, it is ``full of love.'' How can he be so far wrong 
and not see the obvious--that Putin is not the spiritual man he was 
once identified as? He is a ruthless war criminal, and innocent people 
are paying the price for his outrages.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 2 (Tuesday, January 4, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6-S7]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                             Voting Rights

  Mr. President, now, about January 6 and defending democracy, at the 
same time the Senate will also proceed on another urgent and 
fundamental matter: protecting our democracy and strengthening the 
right to vote in free and fair elections.
  Later today, I will meet with a number of my colleagues to continue 
our conversation on voting rights, and I will meet with our entire 
caucus for the first time this year to talk about how we are going to 
move forward. There has been constant discussion among Members over the 
break--constant. I must have made a minimum of 10 phone calls every 
day, with maybe the exception of Christmas, in respect for my 
colleagues. But we have to keep moving forward.
  And, a few days from now, our country will observe a dark and 
troubling milestone: the 1-year anniversary of January 6, the day that 
thousands of rioters, urged on by the vicious lies of the disgraced 
former President, waged a violent assault upon the U.S. Capitol in 
order to prevent a peaceful transfer of power.
  This was no just peaceful demonstration; this was aimed at undoing 
our democracy. Thank God they failed.
  As I said hours after the attack, January 6, 2021, will be forever 
remembered as a day of enduring infamy, a permanent blemish in the 
story of American democracy, and the final, bitter act of the worst 
President--the worst President--in modern times.
  Of course, over the course of this week, we will pay tribute to the 
heroes who stepped up that fateful day: our Capitol Police, the DC 
Metro Police, our National Guard who kept watch for months, and 
everyone who acted quickly that day to save the lives and save our 
democracy. But this week--this week--we must also acknowledge that the 
attack on January 6 was not a one-off. It did not materialize out of 
the blue. On the contrary, January 6 was a symptom of a much broader 
illness that has now infected the modern Republican Party: an effort to 
delegitimize our elections, rooted in Donald Trump's Big Lie.
  While January 6 was only 1 day, the Big Lie lives on and has only 
grown stronger. The Big Lie lives on in Republican-dominated State 
legislatures, where at least 19 States have passed 33 new laws that 
will potentially make it harder--harder--for millions to vote in our 
elections. They say they want to prevent fraud, and they have no 
evidence of fraud. We all know what they are up to: vitiating, 
poisoning our elections, this sacred part of American democracy.
  And the violence and threats of violence continue. The Big Lie lives 
on through the troubling wave of violent threats that election workers 
across the country have endured over the course of the last year, all 
simply for the audacity of having done their job to count the votes 
fairly and without bias.
  If left alone--if left alone--the Big Lie threatens the very future 
of our Republic. If people don't believe in the sanctity of our 
elections, what is going to happen to this Republic? The sanctity of 
elections, the fairness of elections, the fact that after election day 
we abide by the results has been the cornerstone of our entire 
democracy. It is what democracy is all about. It is what the Founding 
Fathers constructed. Are we going to let that go by the wayside? Are we 
going to let it be poisoned and vitiated, with huge consequences to the 
effect of this Nation, probably greater than any we have seen since the 
Civil War?
  So, as we remember January 6 this week and as we confront State-level 
voter suppression, we must be clear that they are not isolated 
developments; they are all directly linked to the same anti-democratic 
poison of the Big Lie.
  Let me say that one more time. The insurrection of January 6, the 
flurry of new voter restriction laws, and the State-level efforts to 
subvert democracy are not isolated developments but manifestations of 
the same anti-democratic poison of Donald Trump's Big Lie, and they all 
demand the same solution: The Senate must advance legislation to 
protect our democracy and safeguard the right to vote.
  Over the coming weeks, the Senate will thus consider legislation we 
can pass to achieve this goal. Democrats for months have tried to bring 
Republicans to the table, but every single time, Republicans use the 
rules of the Senate to prevent even a debate.
  Voting rights in the past was a bipartisan issue. How quickly they 
forget. Republican Presidents--Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, George 
W. Bush--supported voting rights.
  When voting rights extensions came up in this body in the past, they 
passed by large majorities--bipartisan. The resistance we see from 
modern-day Republicans is a beast of an entirely different nature. 
Maybe some of them were scared of Trump. But too many of them see this 
as a way to win advantage, to get their hard-right views enacted, even 
though the public doesn't support them, by jaundicing our election 
process and putting barriers in the way of particular people--not all 
people--of voting: people of color, poor people, people who live in big 
cities, young people, handicapped people, elderly people.
  As I said in my ``Dear Colleague'' earlier this week, if Republicans 
continue to hijack the rules of the Chamber to prevent action on 
something as critical as protecting our democracy, then the Senate will 
debate and consider changes to the rules on or before January 17, 
Martin Luther King Jr. Day.

[[Page S7]]

  Over the course of history, the Senate has debated voting rights many 
times and done what was necessary to take action, but rarely did our 
predecessors face the sort of malice that now confronts our democracy 
from within.
  One final point. I mean, the arguments from the other side--they are 
saying: Federalize the elections. That is in the Constitution, that 
Federal elections can be determined by Federal legislation. That is 
what some of our great post-Civil War amendments were all about. That 
is what the history of voting rights legislation has been about. When 
State legislatures, for reasons often bigoted and racist, said people 
couldn't vote for one reason or another or stopped them from voting, 
the Congress stepped in. That is nothing new. It is unbelievable the 
arguments they come up with--just totally false. Totally false.
  So as we hold this debate, I ask my colleagues to consider this 
question: If the right to vote is the cornerstone of our democracy, 
then how can we Democrats permit a situation in which Republicans can 
pass voter suppression laws at the State level with only a simple 
majority vote but not allow the U.S. Senate to do the same? And I ask 
that of my Democratic colleagues--my Democratic colleagues.
  This asymmetry cannot hold. If Senate Republicans continue to abuse 
the filibuster to prevent this body from acting, then the Senate must 
adapt. The Senate always has.
  Robert C. Byrd, one of this Chamber's great traditionalists, 
acknowledged that Senate rules that seemed appropriate in the past 
``must be changed to reflect changed circumstances.'' Boy oh boy, do we 
have changed circumstances now with this abandonment of voting rights 
by the Republican Party and a willingness to let voters from one end of 
the country to the other be suppressed. As times change and 
circumstances evolve, the Senate must follow the suit of changed 
circumstances when necessary. So we are going to work towards that goal 
in the coming weeks.

  To downplay the threat against our democracy is dangerous--dangerous. 
We have seen this in history forever. When people try to subvert 
democracy, when they use threats of violence to do so, if good people 
don't stand up, the democracy can wither. We cannot let that happen to 
our wonderful country.
  There is no better way to heal the damage of January 6 than to act so 
that our constitutional order is preserved for the future. If we do not 
act to protect our elections, the horrors of January 6 will risk 
becoming not the exception but the norm. The stakes could not be 
higher. So we are going to move forward.
  I yield the floor.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The majority whip.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 7 (Tuesday, January 11, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S124-S129]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                           Voting Rights Act

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, later today, President Biden will be 
speaking in Georgia as part of Democrats' effort to convince the 
American people that voting rights are under attack so they can justify 
their attempt to abolish the Senate filibuster to pass their partisan 
election legislation.
  A noted Democrat operative once famously said that you should never 
let a good crisis go to waste. He meant, of course, that a crisis could 
give you the opportunity to push things through that you might not be 
able to get done in the ordinary course of things. It is a lesson the 
Democrats have learned well.
  Last March, for example, Democrats used the cover of the COVID crisis 
to pass a so-called COVID relief bill that had very little to do with 
COVID relief and had a lot to do with expanding the role of government 
and providing payoffs to Democrat constituencies.
  But, unfortunately for Democrats, when it comes to election 
legislation, there is no crisis for Democrats to exploit, so Democrats 
have spent the past year busily trying to manufacture one. I say the 
past year, but Democrats have actually been claiming there is a voting 
crisis for much longer.
  The source of the election bill that we will likely vote on this week 
is H.R. 1--election legislation that was first introduced by Democrats 
back in 2019. Back then, Democrats told us that our election system was 
broken and that we needed this bill to fix it. After all, a Republican 
had won the last Presidential election and beat a favored Democrat 
candidate. Surely, surely, that meant our system was in trouble. But 
then the 2020 elections came along, and Democrats won the Presidency 
and a majority--albeit a narrow majority--in both Houses of Congress. 
Voter turnout was massive, and a Pew Research Center poll found that 94 
percent of people found it easy to vote--94 percent. So all of a 
sudden, it was pretty

[[Page S125]]

difficult for Democrats to claim that our system was broken. But they 
still wanted to pass their election legislation, so they came up with a 
new crisis.
  In 2021, a number of States passed updates to their voting laws--
partly because of the challenges and special circumstances that arose 
as a result of the pandemic. Democrats decided that these commonsense, 
mainstream updates represented an unprecedented attack on voting 
rights.
  Georgia, which was one of the first to enact voting legislation, has 
become the poster child for the Democrats' campaign to convince 
Americans that their voting rights are in danger.
  So what terrible voter suppression measures are States imposing? 
Well, one provision of the Georgia law that has come in for a lot of 
Democrat outrage is its measure forbidding partisan political 
organizations from providing individuals with food or water within 150 
feet of a polling place. Yes, apparently preventing partisan political 
organizations from providing lunch to voters threatens the very 
stability of our entire democracy.
  Now, nothing in Georgia's law prevents outside groups from providing 
food and water to individuals outside the 150-foot radius, and 
Georgia's law explicitly allows nonpartisan election workers, as 
opposed to political groups, to make water available to voters. Of 
course, I am pretty sure any voter can bring his or her own food and 
water. But none of that has prevented Democrats from suggesting that 
rules about food and water distribution at polling places represent a 
grave threat to voting rights.
  Ironically, the State of New York has a similar provision in its 
election law prohibiting any refreshment or provision to a voter at a 
polling place except if the retail value of what is given is less than 
$1 and the person or entity providing it is not identified. Yet I don't 
see the Democrats traveling to New York to decry the threat to 
democracy posed by the New York Legislature.
  After Georgia passed its voting law, President Biden got up and 
attacked the law for supposedly ending voting early to prevent working 
people from voting. He made that accusation repeatedly. The problem? 
There was exactly zero truth to his claim. In fact, as the Washington 
Post's Fact Checker column pointed out, ``experts say the net effect of 
the new early-voting rules was to expand the opportunities to vote for 
more Georgians, not limit them.''
  That is from the Washington Post's Fact Checker. Let me just repeat 
that:

       [E]xperts say that the net effect of the new early-voting 
     rules was to expand the opportunities to vote for most 
     Georgians, not limit them.

  The Fact Checker gave the President four Pinocchios--a rating the 
column reserves for ``whoppers''--for his false claim that the law was 
designed to keep working Americans from voting.
  I would also like to point out that not only is Georgia's election 
reform law thoroughly mainstream, Georgia's laws are actually more 
permissive in some respects than voting laws in some Democrat States.
  Georgia offers no-excuse absentee voting. The Democrat leader's home 
State--Senator Schumer's home State--does not. In fact, voters in the 
Democrat leader's home State actually just rejected a ballot measure 
that would have allowed no-excuse absentee voting. I guess the Democrat 
leader thinks that those voters are trying to destroy our democracy.
  Georgia also has way more days of early voting than the Democrat 
leader's home State. So does Arizona, another State that has come under 
fire from Democrats for updating its election laws. Yet red States, 
according to Democrats, are the States attempting to suppress votes.
  It is also important to note that the Georgia law was written to 
address concerns from Republican and Democrat voters, including 
concerns raised by Stacey Abrams-affiliated groups over the 2018 
Georgia gubernatorial election.
  There is no question--no question--we should make voting easy and 
accessible, but there are a lot of different ways to do that. States 
can have different requirements and still all offer ample opportunities 
to vote.
  Also, I think my Democrat friends need a little perspective check. 
There are countries where individuals would consider it a privilege to 
be able to stand in line to vote in a free election--even if someone 
didn't provide them with food and water.
  Of course, no one wants voters to have to stand in long lines, and, 
in fact, Georgia's election law will make it less likely that they have 
to. But Democrats' dramatic claims that a long line or a lack of a drop 
box or, say, 9 as opposed to 10 days of early voting somehow threatens 
the right to vote in this country are nothing short of absurd. I have 
faith that Americans are capable of voting even without the Democratic 
Party providing them with a boxed lunch.
  There is no election crisis in this country. This last election--
biggest turnout in American history in 120 years. You have to go back 
to the year 1900 to find a time when the election turnout in an 
American election was equal to or exceeded what we had in 2020. What 
there is, is a partisan Democrat election bill the Democrats have 
wanted to pass since long before the Georgia Legislature reformed their 
election laws because they think it will give them an advantage in 
future elections. You don't have to take my word for it; more than one 
Democrat has openly admitted the Democrats want to pass a Federal 
election takeover because they think it will give their party an 
advantage in the next election.
  If Democrats were really concerned about the security of our 
democracy and the integrity of our elections, if they really cared 
about affirming Americans' faith in our electoral system, they would 
not be seeking to break the Senate rules to pass a totally--totally--
partisan election bill on a totally partisan basis. A partisan Federal 
election takeover is not going to do anything to strengthen Americans' 
faith in our system. On the contrary, it will sow mistrust and division 
and heighten partisanship.
  Instead of changing the rules to gain an advantage in the next 
election, I would suggest that my Democrat colleagues instead try 
coming up with an agenda that would appeal to a broad majority of 
Americans--perhaps starting with a plan to address the inflation crisis 
the Democrats have helped create. That would be a far better use of 
their time than undermining faith in our electoral system with a 
partisan rules change and a partisan Federal takeover of elections.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will speak today on two topics--No. 1, 
the substance of the bill, which is, I guess, yet to be known, 
regarding voting rights, which I consider to be a Federal takeover of 
State elections, and the constant threat of changing the rules of the 
Senate to do away with the legislative filibuster as we know it.
  I would say to my Democratic colleagues, this has been going on for 
quite a while, the constant threat by Senator Schumer to change the 
rules to pass whatever legislation you-all can come up with.
  All I can say is, things were different when we were in charge. We 
had the House, the Senate, and the White House. President Trump 
constantly urged Senator McConnell and all of us on the Republican side 
to change the rules of the Senate so he could pass his agenda 
unimpeded; that anything that came out of the House, which was under 
Republican control, could sail right through the Senate with Republican 
votes only.
  It was pretty clear to my Democratic colleagues that was not a good 
outcome, I thought for the country, but I guess for them.
  We signed a letter on April 7, 2017--61 signatures: 28 Republicans, 
32 Democrats, and 1 Independent. The letter was sent to Senator 
McConnell, who was the majority leader, and the minority leader was 
Senator Schumer at the time, urging both leaders that, no matter what 
differences we have had regarding Executive nominations and judges, we 
should preserve the minority's rights under the so-called legislative 
filibuster.

[[Page S126]]

  Apparently, it made perfect sense to my Democratic colleagues that 
the Senate not change to accommodate Donald Trump and his wishes. I was 
assuming that the statement by my Democratic colleagues was about the 
institution, not just about the Trump Presidency and the times in which 
we lived in 2017.
  Apparently, I was wrong--except for a handful. And to Senators Sinema 
and Manchin, you have led from the front, not from the rear. You have 
taken your fair share of criticism as you have opposed changing the 
Senate rules to accommodate the voting rights bill, and it has been--
the argument goes that this is so fundamental to democracy, voting, 
that the Senate has to give way in this instance.
  All I can say is that when many of us were in your shoes, we didn't 
make an exception for a piece of legislation that we thought was 
critical to the future of the country. And it would be easy to find an 
exception here and there and everywhere, to the point that the rule 
bends with the exception. Now, I appreciate your steadfastness in that 
regard, and, apparently, as you read the news, a few more Democrats are 
becoming publicly unnerved by the thought of changing the legislative 
filibuster--just a handful. And we are supposed to be in over the 
weekend, I think, maybe even into Monday, to have the change--rules 
change--but that may be in flux now because it appears a handful of 
Democrats are showing some distaste for changing the rules. I don't 
know why they are coming out now. I appreciate it.
  I don't think it would be very popular in certain States to change 
the rules of the Senate that would pave the way for the most radical 
agenda in my lifetime. I don't know if that has got something to do 
with it or if there is a newfound religion here by a handful.
  To the rest, I won't forget this. I was 1 of the 28 Republicans who 
signed the letter to the leaders of the Senate asking that the 
institution maintain the legislative filibuster, and not because it 
benefited me personally but because I thought it benefited the American 
people.
  The day you make the Senate the House, we are going to have wild 
policy changes. When we are in charge, we will go down one road; when 
Democrats are in charge, they will go down another road, and there will 
be a just unnerving aspect of this, in my view, and I think for well 
over a century, the Senate has prevented these wild changes. And that 
means you don't get what you would like as conservatives. The same 
people who are applauding my resistance to changing the filibuster 
today were all over me when we were in charge wanting me to change the 
filibuster. I understand that.
  Ideological people want their way, and they don't particularly care 
how they get it. Most Americans have a more balanced approach about how 
the legislative process should work, and I think, over time, the 
requirement to get a handful of people from the other party to pass 
legislation, particularly major legislation, has served the country 
well.
  There are things that we would do completely different than our 
Democratic friends because we have different views, and some of these 
ideas just never make it through the Senate. And every now and then we 
will come up with solutions to hard problems that are bipartisan 
because we have to, as long as the legislative filibuster is around.
  So the idea of changing the legislative filibuster would pave the 
way, if Democrats have all branches of government here, to make DC and 
Puerto Rico a State. I think they would. It paves the way for 
increasing the number of Justices on the Supreme Court because liberals 
don't like the current makeup. I think there would be a move to abolish 
the electoral college, which would be devastating for South Carolina.
  And to all the people in this body, adding two more States may serve 
your interests, but it certainly dilutes the power you have as an 
individual State.
  So the legislative filibuster is a stop sign to the most radical 
agenda I have seen since I have been up here, and it was a stop sign to 
the Trump agenda, and you just fill in the blanks.
  This effort by Senator Schumer to abolish the legislative filibuster 
under the guise of a single exception is cynical and I think a sign of 
desperation.
  I like Senator Schumer. I have been able to work with him--
immigration and other hot-button issues--but the truth of the matter 
is, this all started back when President Bush's judicial nominees were 
filibustered en mass that led to the Gang of 14, spearheaded by Senator 
Byrd, sort of one of the icons of the Senate, to make sure that 
filibustering judges would be done only in extraordinary circumstances. 
We broke the logjam. We lost a couple of good conservative judges as 
part of the compromise, and that held until it no longer held.
  In 2013, I got a call from Senator Schumer--I never will forget it--
that we are going to push for a rules change when it comes to court of 
appeals and district court judges--I think in 2013.
  I remember the reaction I had and Senator McCain's, and they were 
able to do that. And when President Trump became President and had a 
couple of Democratic--excuse me--a couple Supreme Court vacancies to 
fill, they were all filibustered, starting with Gorsuch, to the point 
that we changed the rules so that he could get some people on the Court 
who I think were highly qualified. So the bottom line is, when it comes 
to judges, the ship has sailed. Executive appointments, maybe that 
should have been changed. The effect on the judiciary, I think, is 
going to be detrimental over time.
  The most ideological elements of each conference will have a large 
say about what kind of judges we put on the court, and you will see a 
change over time from the right and the left because you no longer have 
to reach across the aisle to put a judge on the court.
  Apply that to legislation and, again, it would be devastating to the 
country and this body to not require some form of consensus when it 
comes to legislation and deny the minority the ability to require that 
consensus.
  As to voting rights itself, I think this is the most hyped, 
manufactured issue in a long time. This is a problem in search of--it 
is not a problem in search of a solution; it is a manufactured problem.
  States under our Constitution are supposed to run elections. In my 
State, I think we do a pretty good job. There are some efforts to 
change election laws throughout the country. As more and more people 
vote by mail, I think it is incumbent that you have the same voter 
identification requirements by voting by mail as you do in person. It 
would be so easy to manipulate that system.
  The bottom line here is this is an effort by the Democratic leader to 
basically say that Republicans, at our heart, are a bunch of racists 
when it comes to voting; that the reason they are having to do this is 
that States are changing laws to disenfranchise people of color and 
minorities.
  I find that, like, incredibly offensive--I mean, just beyond 
offensive. In my State, which is 30 percent-plus African American, we 
have robust opportunity to vote. All these laws that are being changed 
to implement voter integrity, I think, are necessary in the times in 
which we live.
  But the bill coming before the body, whatever it is, is a 
federalization of the election process. It is not about enfranchising 
the voters; it is about enfranchising the ability of the left to take 
over the electoral process to skew it to their favor, and I think 
almost all of us see it that way over here.
  So, you know, as a Republican, particularly from the South, you sort 
of get used to being called a racist. It is never pleasant, but you 
sort of get used to it. It is the cheapest form of politics. It is very 
unsavory to the people in my State.
  I went through that process in 2020, and I hope I have lived a life 
to convince reasonable people that, whatever flaws I have, being a 
racist is not one of them.
  And to clothe this exercise here as some kind of moral imperative 
that if we don't do this bill, then people throughout the country will 
lose their right to vote because Republicans, at the end of the day, 
don't want people of color to vote is beyond offensive, and I hope it 
fails and that we can get back to some sense of regular order around 
here.
  But I will end with this: When the shoe was on the other foot, most 
of us didn't do this. Your country needs you

[[Page S127]]

right now to speak up. If you support changing the legislative 
filibuster one time for the voting rights bill, you support the end of 
it because there will be no end to the exceptions.
  And most of you over there have been hiding in the corner, letting 
other people take the arrows. It is time for you to speak up. I 
actually hope we have a vote because I want to know where people are, 
whom I can count on and whom I can't, to understand what is 
transactional and what is about the body. Time will tell.
  I yield the floor to Senator Cornyn.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Texas.
  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, considering the way our Democratic friends 
talk about the state of voting rights in America, it is easy to see why 
some people have expressed concerns because if you took them at face 
value, you might be very worried about the state of voting rights in 
our country, but there is more to the story than that, which I will 
hope to explain here in the next few minutes.
  For example, when it comes to the alarmism about voting rights, look 
no further than the Democratic majority whip, Senator Durbin from 
Illinois, who said there is an ``insidious effort to suppress the 
rights of voters of color.''
  Senator Schumer, the majority leader, Senator from New York, has said 
the right to vote is ``under attack in ways we have not seen in 
generations.''
  President Biden himself has said there is a ``21st century Jim Crow 
assault'' on the right to vote.
  If you were to take these at face value and accept them, obviously, 
you would be very concerned about the state of voting rights.
  But there is more to the story, as I said. If you just listen to 
these statements, you would think that the States--the 50 States--had 
just imposed literacy tests on voting. You would think the disgusting 
and subjective determinations of ``good moral character'' that existed 
before the civil rights movement had somehow sprung back to life. You 
might even wonder if the Supreme Court of the United States has struck 
down the Voting Rights Act itself.
  (Mr. KELLY assumed the Chair.)
  Obviously, none of these things are true. There is simply no 
concerted effort to attempt to prevent voters of color or any eligible 
voters from casting their ballots.
  The Voting Rights Act--one of the most important pieces of 
legislation in our Nation's history--is alive and well. I think the 
Voting Rights Act has done more to change our country for the better 
than any other piece of legislation that I can think of.
  So, to be frank, the facts simply don't support our Democratic 
colleagues' alarming rhetoric about the state of voting in America. 
This narrative of widespread voter suppression is nothing more than a 
scare tactic to achieve a political outcome.
  Our colleagues across the aisle have introduced many different 
versions of their Federal takeover of State elections bill, but the 
justification seems to always change. First they said it was a matter 
of election security; then of voter confidence; and then and now, a way 
to remove obstacles that prevented people from voting. Today, our 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle claim that this legislation 
is necessary because the States have passed new laws that restrict 
voting access. So let's just take a look at what some of those laws 
entail.
  One of those laws in my State of Texas, where the goal is pretty 
simple, which is to make voting easier and to make it harder to cheat--
Texas already offers 2 weeks of early voting in person, and the new law 
didn't make any changes in that. For 2 weeks, you can show up and vote 
in person before election day--hardly a restriction on people's access 
to the ballot.
  This law did, in addition to making sure that people had 2 weeks to 
vote in person early, extend voting hours in more than 60 different 
Texas counties and clarify that voters who were in line at the time the 
polls closed would still be able to cast their ballot. It doesn't sound 
like voter suppression to me.
  But the law also took some measures to reduce opportunities for fraud 
or mischief. Texas voting systems must now be tested before an election 
to ensure there are no technical difficulties. I am sure all of us are 
familiar with the occasional problem with voting machines, technical 
difficulties that need to be fixed to make sure it counts each 
legitimate vote. And we did make sure that voting rolls reflected only 
qualified voters. In other words, voters who passed away were removed 
from the voting rolls.
  My State, like others, has clarified that the temporary, pandemic-
related measures were not intended to be permanent. We did take some 
extraordinary precautions in the midst of COVID-19 to make sure people 
had access to the ballot. But these are hardly--restoration of the 
status quo before COVID-19 is hardly an example of voter repression.
  I mentioned Texas and its expansive right to cast your ballot in 
person and to make sure everybody in line when the polls close could 
still cast their ballot.
  Another State that has come under fire is Georgia. As a matter of 
fact, the Attorney General of the United States has sued Texas and 
Florida and Georgia under the Voting Rights Act. And, of course, 
President Biden is highlighting the Georgia laws because he is visiting 
today doing what I have never seen a President do before, and that is, 
villainize a State's new voting law, which, to me, is a bizarre thing 
for a sitting President to do, to travel to a State for the purpose of 
villainizing that State's law.
  I doubt he will mention the fact that Georgia actually extended early 
voting to 17 days. That is not an example of voter suppression, of 
trying to restrict people's access to the ballot. As a matter of fact, 
that is much more generous than what President Biden's home State of 
Delaware has offered in terms of early access to the ballot.
  So these clearly are not examples of Jim Crow voter suppression. 
These are commonsense measures designed to encourage people's 
confidence in the integrity of the voting systems and to make sure that 
they are both accessible and secure. These efforts should not be 
villainized; they should be applauded. They shouldn't be twisted beyond 
recognition, trying to manipulate the facts in order to achieve a 
political outcome.

  If these State voting laws, then, are not designed to restrict access 
to the ballot, you might wonder whether there was a preexisting 
problem. So let's have a look.
  Did voters actually have a problem casting their ballot during the 
last election? Well, following the 2020 election, the Pew Research 
Center conducted a poll of the voting experience, and it found that the 
vast majority of voters, 94 percent--94 percent--said that voting was 
easy. I don't think you could get 94 percent of people to agree that 
the Earth is round anymore, but here we have 94 percent of the voters 
who voted with ease in 2020. This is a stark contrast with the claimed 
assault on voting rights that we have heard so much about from our 
colleagues on the left.
  Despite what the radical left might lead you to believe, there is no 
nationwide assault on voting rights. If there were, every person in 
this building would be lined up to defend the right to vote, not just 
Democrats. This is a manufactured crisis designed to achieve a 
political outcome.
  There are plenty of safeguards already in place to prevent 
discriminatory voting laws from taking effect, the most important of 
which, as I have already said, is the Voting Rights Act. Because of 
this legislation, the Justice Department has the authority to take 
action against any State, any political entity that discriminates on 
the basis of race, color, or membership in a language-minority group. 
This has been the case for half a century, and no one--no one--wants to 
weaken or eliminate those protections.
  Unfortunately, some of our colleagues on the left have misrepresented 
the picture of voting rights in America to justify this partisan power 
grab. The legislation they have introduced does more to enhance their 
own power than it does to address voting rights. These bills aren't 
about supporting disenfranchised voters or fighting voter suppression 
because, as we know, there is no nationwide assault on the right to 
vote, notwithstanding what some have claimed. This is simply about 
enhancing the political power of the Democratic Party. They want to 
seize States' constitutional authority to

[[Page S128]]

manage their own elections and use it for their own benefit.
  That is one of the most curious things about this debate that we are 
hearing from some of our Democratic colleagues. They want to actually 
vote for a nationwide, one-size-fits-all standard, to the detriment of 
their own States' voting laws.
  It is pretty strange to come here representing a State--let's say I 
was in the shoes of the Democrats. If I were to come here to say 
``Well, my State has passed voting laws. I represent my State, but I 
want the Federal Government to take over the voting laws and to 
suppress and supersede the voting laws in my State''--that is what our 
Democratic colleagues are asking for.
  President Biden, apparently, rather than changing the voting laws in 
his home State of Delaware, wants the Federal Government to create a 
one-size-fits-all answer to voting rights in America--again, something 
that is inconsistent with the Constitution and makes no sense at all.
  Well, to make matters even worse, some of our colleagues are even 
advocating blowing up the Senate in order to achieve their goals 
because they know they don't have 60 votes in order to close off 
debate.
  Now, the 60-vote requirement is the subject of a lot of controversy, 
but, frankly, it makes good common sense. In a country as big and 
diverse as America, do you really want to have a partisan majority of 
51 writing the laws that affect 330 million people, only to have, after 
the next election, the next majority undo those or change them in some 
other way? Wouldn't you want a mechanism that forces us to do what we 
might consider to be a little unnatural, which is actually to build 
consensus and build bipartisanship to make sure that the laws we pass 
are not only adequately debated and thought out, but they could endure 
beyond the next election because they enjoyed the support of bipartisan 
majorities?

  That is what the 60-vote cloture requirement is really about. It is 
about making sure that purely partisan outcomes don't succeed and 
forcing us to do what I believe is in the best interest of the American 
people, which is force us to work together to achieve bipartisan 
consensus.
  The election takeover bill may be the first one our Democratic 
colleagues try to pass if they eliminate or weaken the filibuster, but 
it won't be the last. This isn't going to be a one-and-done exercise. 
Anybody who says you can carve out voting laws and everything else will 
remain the same is just kidding themselves and the American people. If 
the Democrats created a carve-out for election-related bills, there 
would be nothing--nothing--stopping them from resurrecting early 
versions of the election takeover bill and passing them on a completely 
partisan basis.
  Previous versions of this bill would have turned the historically 
bipartisan Federal Election Commission into a partisan body. They would 
have mandated ballot harvesting and seized States' constitutional 
authority to draw their own congressional districts. These are the 
types of radical measures that we could see under what our colleagues 
call a modest carve-out.
  If our Democrat colleagues eliminated the bipartisan 60-vote 
requirement, the floodgates of partisan legislation would surely open. 
Last year, our colleagues tried to pass legislation that exploits the 
cause of pay fairness to send a wave of business to trial lawyers. They 
pushed for another bill that would impose crushing legal penalties on 
those who refuse to comply with woke social norms.
  If the filibuster--the 60-vote bipartisan filibuster--were 
eliminated, Republicans would have no way of stopping these bills from 
becoming law. And it doesn't stop there. The threat doesn't stop there.
  Think of the most controversial bills that our Democratic colleagues 
have proposed. They could add new States to the Union--DC statehood, 
Puerto Rican statehood. They could pack the Supreme Court of the United 
States with liberal Justices. They could pass laws that infringe on the 
Second Amendment to the Constitution, the right to keep and bear arms, 
or legalize abortion up until the time a baby is delivered in the third 
trimester. They could impose job-killing taxes and kick-start the Green 
New Deal.
  So what is at stake here this week is far more than the fate of one 
or two bills. Our colleagues are proposing to put a thumb on the scale 
to benefit the Democratic Party.
  If the filibuster, the bipartisan 60-vote requirement, is eliminated, 
our colleagues on the other side of the aisle will have unchecked power 
to write the laws affecting 330 million Americans. We know they are 
already willing to manufacture a voting rights crisis to increase their 
own power. If they are willing to do that, what aren't they willing to 
do? I know I am not alone in saying I hope we never find out.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, will my colleague from Texas yield for a 
request, just a request. I would like to borrow his chart.
  Mr. CORNYN. I have yielded the floor.
  Mr. SCHUMER. OK. My colleague, I would yield to you. I have the 
floor.
  Do you mind if I borrow your chart? Great. Thank you.
  Now, my good colleague from Texas says 94 percent of voters said 
voting was easy in 2020. So why don't we keep it that way?
  Isn't it true that all of the changes that we are arguing about are 
post-2020, and is it an overwhelming likelihood that this number, if 
these changes are allowed to go into effect, will go way down? So, yes, 
we agree. Keep the 2020 laws. Maybe we should improve them. Right now, 
what we are combating is a series of legislatures--19--and 33 laws that 
will make this number surely go down because it makes voting less hard. 
So we agree that 2020 worked out OK. I guess my friend is saying the 
Big Lie is false because Donald Trump said it was fraudulent, the 
election results.
  I would thank my colleague for his chart and will be using it again.
  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, would the Senator yield for a question?
  Mr. SCHUMER. I sure would.
  Mr. CORNYN. Would you give me an example of one of the laws passed in 
Georgia or in Texas since the 2020 election which you believe 
suppresses the right to vote.
  Mr. SCHUMER. There is a long list of them, which I have listed in my 
speeches. Let me just give one or two: one, making early voting places 
and dropoff voting places many fewer; No. 2, in the largest county--
Democratic county, African-American county--in Georgia, taking away the 
bipartisan ability to collect those votes; No. 3, in Georgia, making it 
a crime that, if you are standing in line, you can't be fed, and the 
lines, by the way, according to the reports I get, are much longer in 
African-American communities than in White suburban communities, making 
it much, much harder--making it a crime, rather--to give people water 
or a sandwich.
  So I am going to now give my remarks, but I thank my colleague for 
the question, and I am going to take the floor.
  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have one more question to clarify your 
response.
  Mr. SCHUMER. The last question, yes.
  Mr. CORNYN. Is the Senator suggesting that ballot harvesting should 
be required in all 50 States? That is the ability of a partisan or a 
participant in a political election to go around to nursing homes or to 
other vulnerable populations and collect ballots and turn them in.
  Mr. SCHUMER. If the Senator would yield, as long as there is no 
fraud, if a person in a nursing home can't get to the polling place and 
wants to vote and someone collects their ballot, there is nothing wrong 
with that. In fact, that is good. That makes it easier for them to 
vote.
  With all of these things that they bring up, there has been no 
evidence of fraud--none. Donald Trump has not produced any evidence of 
fraud. He lost by 7 million votes. Yet he is saying he won the 
election.
  We all know what is motivating our colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle--obeisance to Donald Trump. I would guess most of them know 
that the election was not stolen, that the Big Lie doesn't take effect, 
but Trump has such power over the Republican Party--such power--that 
they do what he wants in the legislatures and here in the Senate.

[[Page S129]]

  I would remind my good friend from Texas that his fellow Texans 
George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush proudly supported an extension of 
the Voting Rights Act. They proudly did that. It was bipartisan until 
Donald Trump came over and, in my opinion, poisoned the Republican 
Party on voting rights. We could use a little resistance to Donald 
Trump. We see it from a good number of Republicans out in the country, 
and we see it from a good number of Republican commentators, but we 
don't see it here in the Senate, and that is unfortunate.

  I am not going to yield for a further question.
  Mr. President, as I begin my remarks, let me begin with the following 
figure--and we will have a debate later.

[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 1010 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 1010

 Expunging the December 18, 2019, impeachment of President Donald John 
                                 Trump.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 29, 2022

 Mr. Mullin submitted the following resolution; which was referred to 
                     the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Expunging the December 18, 2019, impeachment of President Donald John 
                                 Trump.

Whereas the United States Constitution provides that the House of 
        Representatives ``shall have the sole Power of Impeachment'' and that 
        the President ``shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and 
        Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and 
        Misdemeanors'';
Whereas, on December 18, 2019, the House of Representatives passed House 
        Resolution 755, Agreeing to Article I of the Resolution Impeaching 
        Donald John Trump, President of the United States, for high Crimes and 
        Misdemeanors, by a vote of 230 Yeas, a bipartisan coalition of 197 Nays, 
        1 Present, and 3 Not Voting;
Whereas Article I of the Resolution, entitled ``Abuse of Power'', alleges, based 
        on vague innuendo, opinion, and hearsay, that President Trump 
        ``solicited the interference of a foreign government, Ukraine, in the 
        2020 United States Presidential election'';
Whereas Article I of the Resolution alleges President Trump ``sought to pressure 
        the Government of Ukraine'' to announce two investigations, the first 
        into ``a political opponent, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden, 
        Jr.,'' and the second, into provable lies by House and Senate Democrats 
        that Donald Trump colluded with Russia to undermine the 2016 
        Presidential election;
Whereas Article I of the Resolution alleges President Trump conditioned ``(A) 
        The release of $391 million . . . for the purpose of providing vital 
        military and security assistance to Ukraine . . .; and (B) a head of 
        state meeting at the White House . . .'' with the President of Ukraine, 
        upon a Ukrainian announcement that both a corruption investigation into 
        influence-peddling by the Biden family and an investigation into 
        election interference in the 2016 United States Presidential election 
        had begun;
Whereas President Johnson was impeached in 1868 for violating the Tenure of 
        Office Act;
Whereas President Nixon's resignation from office in 1974 followed extensive, 
        and provable, instances of criminal conduct, including multiple felony 
        crimes;
Whereas President Clinton was impeached in 1998 for the Federal crime of lying 
        under oath to deny justice to a fellow American;
Whereas, to substantiate the charge of ``Abuse of Power'', Article I of the 
        Resolution is the first circumstance in American history in which 
        Articles of Impeachment considered, and passed by the House of 
        Representatives, lack any allegation of any crime, no less the ``high 
        Crimes and Misdemeanors'' standard required by Section Four of Article 
        II of the United States Constitution;
Whereas Article I of the Resolution alleges President Trump's actions were taken 
        ``in pursuit of personal political benefit . . . and thus ignored and 
        injured the interests of the Nation'';
Whereas Article I of the Resolution fails to provide a modification for, 
        definition of, or guidance to measure, that which qualifies as a 
        ``personal political benefit,'' or ``injury to the interests of the 
        Nation'';
Whereas proper consideration of whether ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors'' were 
        committed cannot justly take place without properly defining the conduct 
        at issue, particularly when such conduct must meet Congress' burden of 
        ``clear and convincing evidence'';
Whereas Article I of the Resolution submits, as indisputable proof of the 
        commission of an ``Abuse of Power'', a subjective analysis of a July 25, 
        2019, ``Memorandum of a Telephone Conversation'' between President Trump 
        and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Oleksandrovych Zelensky;
Whereas, by the standards set forth in Article I of the Resolution, any action 
        that may affect an election could be potentially construed as an ``Abuse 
        of Power'', an action taken for ``personal political benefit'', or a 
        solicitation to ``intervene'' in an election;
Whereas all past Presidential Impeachments in American history were based on 
        well-defined and specific criminal acts, not subjective accusations of 
        intent, and circumstances in which the primary allegations were not 
        proven;
Whereas the anonymous ``whistleblower complaint'', which served as the impetus 
        for the December 18, 2019, Impeachment of President Trump, was based 
        entirely on secondhand knowledge, and hearsay;
Whereas both the charge of ``Abuse of Power'' in Article I, and the charge of 
        ``Obstruction of Congress'' in Article II, are built on presumptions 
        contrary to facts and evidence;
Whereas the transcript of the July 25, 2019, call between President Trump and 
        President Zelensky showed no conditionality for any official act by 
        President Zelensky, such as an announcement that both a corruption 
        investigation into the Biden family, and a 2016 United States 
        Presidential election interference investigation, had begun;
Whereas neither President Zelensky, nor his aides, had any knowledge that the 
        $391,000,000 in Ukrainian military and security assistance was on hold 
        for further review;
Whereas, from the beginning, despite the rabid impeachment fervor led by House 
        and Senate Democrats, media personalities, and the liberal elite class, 
        both President Trump and President Zelensky maintained that there was no 
        pressure, no quid pro quo, and no linkage between the $391,000,000, and 
        the announcement of Ukrainian investigations;
Whereas the $391,000,000 in Ukrainian military and security assistance was 
        released without Ukraine announcing an investigation of any kind;
Whereas President Trump invited President Zelensky to meet with him at the White 
        House on three occasions without any conditions, particularly no 
        condition(s) of any announcement(s) of an investigation into the Biden 
        family's corrupt practices and influence-peddling in Ukraine;
Whereas President Trump and President Zelensky met on September 25, 2019, with 
        no Ukrainian announcement(s) of any investigation(s) into the Biden 
        family's corrupt practices and influence-peddling in Ukraine;
Whereas skepticism of Ukrainian leaders and high-level officials was and is 
        entirely reasonable, and advised, given Ukraine's well-documented 
        history as one of the most corrupt nations in the world;
Whereas skepticism of the Biden family based on strong evidence of a history of 
        corruption and influence-peddling in Ukraine, as well as Hunter Biden's 
        role on the Board of Directors at Burisma Holdings Limited, is entirely 
        reasonable and advised;
Whereas witnesses called by House Democrats during the impeachment proceedings 
        testified that Burisma Holdings Limited has an extensive history of 
        controversy in Ukraine;
Whereas the founder of Burisma Holdings, Ukrainian oligarch Mykola Zlochevsky, 
        was Ukraine's Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources from 2010 to 
        2012, and allegedly granted licenses to Burisma Holdings for the 
        development of gas fields in which he had a significant personal 
        interest;
Whereas Hunter Biden, alongside well-connected Democrat operative and now-
        convicted fraudster Devon Archer, joined Burisma's Board of Directors at 
        a time when the company faced criticism, and at a time when Joe Biden, 
        then Vice President of the United States, acted as President Obama's 
        primary advisor on Ukraine;
Whereas it defies reason to assert that Hunter Biden was at all independently 
        qualified for such a position, especially given his complete lack of 
        experience, and self-admitted long history as a ne'er-do-well drug 
        addict;
Whereas the Obama State Department knew that Hunter Biden's involvement in 
        Ukraine was a point of ethical vulnerability, and took steps to 
        thoroughly prepare and instruct United States Ambassador to Ukraine 
        Marie L. Yovanovitch how best to answer questions thereon, at her June 
        21, 2016, confirmation hearing before the Senate Committee on Foreign 
        Relations;
Whereas, on January 23, 2018, during a Council on Foreign Relations discussion, 
        then-Vice President Joe Biden bragged about a March 2016 encounter in 
        which he bribed Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko, by proclaiming to 
        Poroshenko that the United States would not release $1,000,000,000 in 
        loan guarantees unless Poroshenko fired Prosecutor General Victor 
        Shokin, who was conducting an anti-corruption investigation into Burisma 
        Holdings Limited, Hunter Biden, and, by extension, Joe Biden himself;
Whereas, following his description of the particulars of the bribe, Joe Biden 
        gleefully celebrated the success of his bribe before those in 
        attendance, specifically stating ``Well, son of a bitch, [Shokin] got 
        fired'';
Whereas the United States is just, and acting as a good steward of taxpayer 
        dollars when it can, and often does, delay awarding such defense aid for 
        various reasons, most notably skepticism based on a historical pattern 
        of corruption, particularly when that historical pattern implicates 
        bribery committed by individuals at the highest levels of American 
        Government, such as then-Vice President Joe Biden;
Whereas a key and widely understood aspect of the Trump administration's foreign 
        policy platform was to scrutinize, and closely evaluate defense 
        assistance programs to foreign nations;
Whereas one of President Trump's central campaign promises was to ensure that 
        each country that receives defense assistance from the United States 
        must first prove themselves worthy beneficiaries thereof;
Whereas United States taxpayer-funded assistance to foreign governments is not 
        considered an entitlement or welfare program, or that which is ``owed'' 
        to any one recipient nation;
Whereas a United States President enjoys broad authority to direct the foreign 
        policy of the United States, and pausing United States security 
        assistance to Ukraine for further scrutiny and analysis, for 55 days, 
        was not and is not presumptive or prima facie evidence of misconduct, or 
        a ``quid pro quo'' exchange, as characterized by congressional Democrats 
        before, and throughout, the impeachment proceedings;
Whereas, on December 18, 2019, the House of Representatives passed House 
        Resolution 755, Agreeing to Article II of the Resolution Impeaching 
        Donald John Trump, President of the United States, for high crimes and 
        misdemeanors, by a vote of 229 Ayes, a bipartisan coalition of 198 Noes, 
        1 Present, and 3 Not Voting;
Whereas the ``Obstruction of Congress'' allegations in Article II do not meet 
        the impeachable standard set forth in Section Four of Article II of the 
        United States Constitution;
Whereas, to substantiate the charge of ``Obstruction of Congress'', Democrats 
        submitted the fact that President Trump chose to assert executive 
        privilege in response to partisan subpoenas issued by the House of 
        Representatives;
Whereas Article II asserts that President Trump's assertion of executive 
        privilege, and his unwillingness to participate in a politically 
        motivated effort to unseat him, is further irrefutable evidence of the 
        commission of ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors'';
Whereas the House of Representatives has no power to determine executive 
        privileges to which a President is entitled;
Whereas President Trump took every reasonable measure to ensure that which 
        transpired between the White House and Ukraine was as transparent as 
        possible to lawmakers and the public alike;
Whereas, on September 25, 2019, after questions arose about the contents of the 
        phone call with President Zelensky, President Trump chose to declassify 
        and release the transcript in the interest of full transparency;
Whereas President Trump further released a redacted version of the anonymous 
        whistleblower complaint so that all Americans could read it for 
        themselves;
Whereas House Democrats had ample opportunity to defend their partisan subpoenas 
        in court, but chose to withdraw those subpoenas, citing the fact that 
        litigation would ``take too long'', holding themselves to a self-
        imposed, and politically motivated, deadline of Christmas break;
Whereas, taken as a whole, both Articles in the Impeachment Resolution, as well 
        as the hearings and investigations in the weeks preceding final passage 
        by the full House of Representatives, are thinly veiled, desperate, and 
        unsuccessful attempts to grasp at any statement, public or private, 
        based on presumption or hearsay, that might remotely resemble evidence 
        that President Trump engaged in a ``quid-quo-pro'' with President 
        Zelensky; and
Whereas by so flippantly exercising one of the gravest and most consequential 
        powers with which the House of Representatives is charged, Democrats 
        have committed the sin about which the Founding Fathers of the United 
        States warned, that being the use of presidential impeachment in a 
        partisan fashion to settle political scores, and relitigate election 
        results with which they disagree, in this case, the 2016 Presidential 
        election of Donald Trump: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the December 18, 2019, impeachment of President 
Donald John Trump is expunged, as the facts and circumstances upon 
which the Articles of Impeachment were based did not meet the burden of 
proving the commission of ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors'' as set forth 
in Section Four of Article II of the United States Constitution.
                                 <all>
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 22 (Thursday, February 3, 2022)]
[House]
[Page H925]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      BIDEN LETTERS ON AFGHANISTAN

  (Mr. WILSON of South Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, on August 26, remarks 
regarding the terrorist attack at the Kabul, Afghanistan, airport, with 
the murder of 13 American servicemembers, the Commander in Chief stated 
that military leaders have contacted him, `` . . . usually by letter, 
saying they subscribe to the mission as designed. . . . ''
  That evening, I sent the first of four letters to the White House 
asking for all letters referenced, with no reply. The decision to 
withdraw U.S. forces from Afghanistan abandoning Americans has been 
correctly identified by President Donald Trump as the worst foreign 
policy disaster ever for American families. This leads to murderous 
attacks over open borders into America.
  Where is the American media on this crucial issue of the claimed 
Afghanistan letters?
  Sadly, no response from the White House reveals admission of no 
letters.
  In conclusion, God bless our troops who successfully protected 
America for 20 years, as the global war on terrorism moves from the 
safe haven in Afghanistan to America.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 152 (Wednesday, September 21, 2022)]
[House]
[Pages H8021-H8022]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               OPEN BORDER IS A NATIONAL SECURITY CRISIS

  (Mr. WILSON of South Carolina asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, last week, Vice 
President Harris bizarrely said the southern border is secure. The 
reality is more threatening and absurd.
  Since Biden took office, over 3 million illegal aliens have crossed. 
In August alone, there were over 200,000 illegal alien encounters. This 
is three times the illegal crossings compared to

[[Page H8022]]

the last August when Donald Trump was President.
  Dangerously, there are 66 trained murderers from the terrorist watch 
list that have crossed. Separately, half a million illegal aliens have 
invaded in the last year, admitted the Department of Homeland Security.
  Biden and the Democrats are responsible for a national security 
crisis due to the open border, with American families at a greater risk 
of murderous attacks than ever before.
  In conclusion, we will not forget 9/11. God bless our troops who 
successfully protected America for 20 years as the global war on 
terrorism continues, moving from a safe haven in Afghanistan to 
America. God bless Ukrainian victory.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 149 (Thursday, September 15, 2022)]
[House]
[Pages H7869-H7874]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           ISSUES OF THE DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 4, 2021, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gohmert) is recognized 
for 60 minutes as the designee of the minority leader.
  Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, these are the times that try men's souls.
  We have heard so much in recent days about the raid by the FBI in 
Mar-a-Lago. I have continued to hear from FBI agents and former FBI 
agents. Republicans on the Judiciary Committee have, as my friend   Jim 
Jordan has pointed out, received, I think, 14 complaints from people 
within the FBI about very serious problems. I have had several that I 
have received personally that were not included in those 14. I 
understand Senator Grassley has also gotten some.
  There is a systemic problem at the FBI. Christopher Wray was 
appointed to clean up the FBI. As I told President Trump later on: You 
have asked me about a few of your appointments; I wish you would have 
asked me about that one, because I could have told you a great deal, 
going back to the days of Mueller as director of the FBI. Director 
Christopher Wray learned some of those techniques.
  Director Mueller, even going back as far as Boston, tried to keep two 
people who were innocent of the murder of which they were convicted--
they were set up by FBI agents--and Director Mueller continued, even 
after it was clear they were innocent, to try to keep them from being 
released from prison.
  Then along came Comey. He has had serious issues with truthfulness 
and yet does a great job of trying to play the victim.
  I had one FBI agent, who had been around a long time, say: You 
remember back to the 1980s, 1990s, at the FBI? We were completely 
professional. If someone had a nonviolent background, we were just 
about doing our job. We would notify the--especially if we knew the 
person had a lawyer, we would notify the lawyer that your client needs 
to appear, is being indicted or has been indicted, needs to appear at 
this or that jail at a certain time. And, of course, if the person 
didn't arrive, they knew they would be picked up. But they were given a 
chance to voluntarily surrender. Normally, that went very well, quite 
professionally.
  But what we have seen arise with the Department of Justice and the 
FBI is absolutely disgusting. I mean, I was a law-and-order felony 
judge. I have sentenced people for felonies, everything from probation 
to the death penalty. I know what it is to wrestle over the issue, 
presentence reports, evidence at sentencing, and what appropriate 
sentences are.

[[Page H7870]]

  


                              {time}  1700

  We expected local, State, and Federal law enforcement that came 
before me to be professional, and they better not lie or there would be 
consequences and there were.
  But this FBI, this DOJ is so far out of control, and Christopher Wray 
took his appointment as Director--at a time we needed the FBI cleaned 
up--as a directive to sweep everything he could under the rug.
  FBI agents have told me, from different places in the country that I 
have talked to, you know: What Director Christopher Wray keeps telling 
us constantly is nothing about being honest. Be truthful about 
everything you say and do. But his big line, they tell me, is ``protect 
the FBI brand.''
  And they make clear, they say he makes clear, and they follow up by 
their actions making it clear, that if there is somebody in the FBI 
doing something wrong, you better not report it to anyone but your 
supervisor.
  I am not going to get into some of these because I haven't had an 
opportunity to properly go through them to exclude identifying 
information, but those that complained to their supervisors that I have 
seen the complaints, they are retaliated against.
  So it becomes very clear to honest, honorable law enforcement people 
working at the FBI, at least many of them, that when Christopher Wray 
says, ``protect the FBI brand,'' he means don't you dare report anybody 
anywhere except to your supervisor, and that way we can get rid of you, 
we can make your life miserable, we can get you out of the FBI, so it 
is only people who won't complain about lies, dishonesty, corruption, 
because the message seems pretty clear: We want people that will help 
us convict the people we want convicted, whether they are guilty or 
not.
  I am not going to get into all of the complaints that have been 
provided to me, the information; but I want to concentrate on one issue 
since Mar-a-Lago, the raid there by the FBI, again, they jumped the 
gun. Never, ever before has a former President had their residence 
raided. And it is very clear that with Director Christopher Wray and 
Attorney General Merrick Garland, here is the deal: If it is a 
supporter of President Trump, let's go after them, make their lives a 
living hell. Let's send the message out far and wide, you better back 
off supporting that guy, that former President Donald Trump or we will 
come after you. We will come after your friends.
  Instead of doing what was done with people working with Secretary of 
State Hillary Clinton, who were given immunity agreements that would 
even include stuff like, we just want to see your laptop, and here is 
the deal we will make with you. Instead of getting a search warrant, 
grabbing the laptop of Hillary Clinton's assistants, they made a deal. 
We just want to look at your laptop, and here is our deal: We will not 
use anything we find in the laptop against Secretary Clinton, against 
you, against anybody. We just need to see what is there. That is all we 
are going to do. We are not going to copy it or anything, and we 
promise we won't prosecute you.
  I have never, ever seen a deal like that. Who would make that kind of 
deal except corrupt people in the Department of Justice and the FBI?
  Because what you do if you are law enforcement, you get the warrant, 
you seize the laptop, and if there is evidence of crime on there, as 
you believe there is, then that can be used to prosecute the people 
instead of giving them an immunity agreement that you will not come 
after them at all.
  There were incredible deals made to protect Secretary Clinton and the 
people who worked for her and to make sure they had no reason to 
testify against their boss. Because typically law enforcement all over 
the country, all over the world, knows if you are going to make a case 
against somebody at the top, whether it is the mob, whether it is the 
State Department, wherever, you make a case against the people below, 
and you say: Okay. Here are 20 violations; you are looking at 5 years, 
you are looking at 100 years. But we will make a deal, we will only 
pursue this charge that carries a 2-year sentence if you will help us 
on the people above you. And you work your way up the food chain.
  That is the way great prosecutions have occurred against mob 
organizations, and it works the same way with any organization, except 
that the DOJ and the FBI chose to treat conservatives, chose to treat 
all of Donald Trump's friends, people that might have information 
against him, they were all treated very differently because there are 
two types of justice. Justice is no longer wearing a blindfold in 
Washington, D.C.
  From some of the complaints I have seen, I used to think the problem 
was here at the national headquarters, but apparently it is not just 
the field office or the headquarters here because there has been so 
much corruption, it spread all over the country.
  So there is all the indignation from the FBI and the DOJ about 
documents that were held in Mar-a-Lago. Now, I haven't talked to 
anybody with President Trump's team, with President Trump. It has been 
months. And the last time I talked to him, he was just calling, 
surprised that I was running for Attorney General in Texas, and it was 
a very short conversation. So we hadn't talked about any of this. But I 
understand his frustration because I have seen the way evidence was 
created to pursue two impeachments of Donald Trump.
  I have seen the evidence, at least some of it, of the way the FBI and 
the DOJ falsely convicted Senator Ted Stevens immediately before his 
election. I think they tried him 2 weeks before his election, and he 
lost just by very little. Then he was exonerated when one FBI agent who 
believed in truth signed an affidavit establishing that there was 
exonerating evidence, exculpatory evidence that they did not provide to 
Senator Stevens and that they forced a witness to say what he had made 
clear was not true, and they convicted him.
  That seems to be a pattern. These kinds of things appear to be going 
on in different places. Oh, yeah, they are convicting some guilty 
people, but it makes it very difficult to know which is which when you 
have an organization that plays fast and loose with the rules and plays 
fast and loose with the truth.

  So you have got people who have made complaints, and just like the 
FBI agent who had a conscience and reported the fraud in the 
prosecution of Ted Stevens by the Department of Justice and the FBI, he 
was run out of the FBI, and the one that was engaged in the fraud, 
according to the FBI, was reassigned and then promoted.
  How do you have a national law enforcement entity that keeps 
integrity when integrity is no longer the key word? Oh, yeah, I have 
heard Comey and others talk about integrity, that the FBI, the ``I'' 
stands for integrity. Not anymore.
  No. It is all about preserving the brand, which means you can't allow 
any information about corruption within the FBI to get outside, or we 
will use our ability to be corrupt to come after you for filing or 
making a complaint or reporting dishonesty.
  Every American has a constitutional right to communicate with his or 
her, or whatever your pronoun is, your Member of Congress. It is a 
right.
  And not only that, it is a constitutional right that those 
communications can be privileged and protected, which is why when 
William Jefferson, Congressman William Jefferson, who did have $90,000 
of cold, hard cash in his freezer--and I read the affidavit that was 
used to get a warrant to search his congressional office--and there 
were people that were on TV saying, gee, there are people like Gohmert 
that are saying they had no right to raid that office.
  Well, those individuals are just ignorant of the Constitution. But 
the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals was not. And they made clear, look, 
even though the Department of Justice in that case--and I had no 
problem with him being convicted. It appeared to me from the affidavit, 
holy cow, if this is accurate, they didn't need to raid his office. In 
fact, by raiding the office and violating the privilege, they put their 
case that was rock solid in jeopardy.
  I remember being an assistant district attorney, right out of law 
school, ready to go pursue justice, and let's get the bad guys. And it 
always helps to have somebody that has been around a while, say wait a 
minute, think about this. What you are proposing to do to get evidence, 
it may violate the Constitution. It may not. But you have got

[[Page H7871]]

a rock solid case here. Why risk it being thrown out trying to make 
some point and get some little piece of evidence you don't need? You 
have got enough to convict. So don't create a possible error pursuing 
evidence you don't need. Just get the conviction. Don't get into the 
murky areas that may reverse your case. You will get the conviction, 
and you will keep the conviction. It won't be reversed on appeal.
  But they put that case at risk because all those years before--and I 
did happen to be in the room. It was the conference room of the 
Speaker. His legal team, House counsel, White House counsel came over, 
DOJ counsel came over, and there was a lot of fury because of what the 
FBI under Mueller did, raiding that office, because in the past if 
someone had a warrant, like to search a congressional office, well, the 
DOJ knew, FBI knew there is privileged material in there. In fact, I am 
sure I am not the only one who has had FBI agents provide information 
about wrongdoing within the FBI.

                              {time}  1715

  Well, when the Founders set up these three branches of government, as 
Justice Scalia once explained to some friends from my old town, the 
reason we have more freedom than any country ever in history--at least 
we used to have it--was because the Founders did not trust government. 
So they made it hard for any one of the three branches to abuse people 
and abuse their power. And the only way the Department of Justice--that 
was created and financed by Congress--the only way to keep them 
accountable--or the intel community--is to make sure Congress does 
proper oversight. And you can't do proper oversight unless you are 
allowed to have people come to you privately and say, Here is the 
problem, and know that they are not going to have reprisals.
  That is why we have the whistleblower laws that many are apparently 
using now. So the way it was done beforehand is you come to House 
counsel. We have a warrant. House counsel, who is familiar with the 
privilege of Congress to keep certain things private and other things 
not, would then go through everything that was specified, because you 
have to have in the warrant, you have to state with particularity the 
place to be searched, the things to be seized.
  They would go through those, and they would put aside anything that 
was privileged and then give the things that were not privileged that 
matched what was in the warrant, give that to DOJ. But Mueller wanted 
to send a message to everybody in Congress, Democrats and Republicans. 
I don't care about your constitutional rights or privileges. We are 
going to go heavy-handed, and I am going to send a message to every 
single Member of Congress: You don't mess with me, or I will come 
search your office. And I will send a message to every FBI agent: You 
better not complain to Members of Congress because I can go raid their 
office, and I can find out who you are, and I can destroy your lives as 
well.
  That was a message very clear. And the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals 
said, Wait a minute. So the DOJ says, okay, we will take the stuff from 
the Congress Members' office, and we will have some people that won't 
be involved in the prosecution that work in our office. They will go 
through it and anything that is not privileged, they will go ahead and 
give that to the prosecutors.
  And the Circuit Court is going: You can't do that in the same office. 
Come on. That has to be somebody different that makes sure that it is 
secure.
  And we saw the FBI, all these years later from that, basically doing 
the same thing with Mar-a-Lago. You have Presidential executive 
privilege. You have attorney-client privilege. Apparently, that doesn't 
mean much anymore at the DOJ, but it still means something to those of 
us that care about the Constitution.
  And yet, they set up their own department to go through--we will 
decide what you can claim as privilege and what--no, you don't get that 
right.
  So what do they do? They hurry through it. So they have already been 
through everything before the Court could appoint a special master. And 
from what we saw in Ted Stevens' case and other cases, you can't be 
sure stuff won't disappear.
  Look at what we just found out. All these years later, going back 6 
years, that the FBI has covered up for 6 years that they employed the 
Russian. The FBI was colluding with Russia. The DNC, the Hillary 
Clinton campaign, they were all colluding with Russia to try to destroy 
Donald Trump. That is why the FBI hired Danchenko. That is why the DNC 
and the Clinton campaign hired Christopher Steele.
  And what we are hearing on the news the last day or two is that at 
the time they went before a judge and swore an oath to keep getting the 
warrant to spy on the Trump campaign and on President Trump, they knew 
their basis was a lie. They committed fraud upon the FISA court.
  And apparently, there are people in the DOJ that don't understand the 
F in FISA--that F word that is the first word in FISA is not what they 
apparently think it is. It stands for foreign. And they committed a 
fraud upon the Court and got a warrant for the first time in the 
history of the country.
  They helped their political campaign by spying on a political 
opponent. Even the DOD, the Department of Defense got involved. They 
hired the professor. And, in fact, we had someone who was a 
whistleblower. He went and said, Look, there are hundreds of thousands 
of dollars being paid to this professor in London, and we got nothing 
in return for it. This is a problem.
  So what happened? They fired him because he found where the DOD was 
helping go after, at that time, candidate Trump. They fired him. He is 
still trying to get his job back. He hasn't gotten justice yet.
  But how can people in America have any confidence in the Department 
of Justice when they think--when there are so many people, apparently, 
who think it is okay to go commit a fraud on the court even at the 
highest level of the DOJ and the FBI. It is not okay.
  Yes, every organization is composed of people who are human and make 
mistakes, but for goodness sakes, when you have top people who flaunt 
the law and think they are above the law, and that if they want to go 
after somebody, then they are Almighty God, and their judgment is 
tantamount. And if you ever report them, they are coming after you 
because they are God-like in their own minds.
  Look, the FISA court is being abused so badly, we know now--and I've 
mentioned before--but that Verizon order that was leaked, I couldn't 
believe it. A judge signed that. Had the judge not read the Fourth 
Amendment? You have to describe particularly the place to be searched 
and what's to be seized.
  And what the government, the FBI, the DOJ said is, you know what? 
FISA court, we need every bit of information this cell phone company 
has on everybody. American, foreign--we don't care. We need every bit 
of information they have on every single customer.
  And the judge looked at it and went, Oh, okay. They need every bit of 
information that Verizon has on every single customer. Sure, I will 
sign that. Where is the particularity? Where is the evidence that any 
of these people have committed a crime--or ``probably'' committed a 
crime? You have got to have probable cause. Where was that?

  And where is the indication that there was evidence in what was being 
seized to prosecute those people for committing--there wasn't any. No, 
they just wanted everything on everybody, and they used the FISA court 
to get it.
  When I saw that, I am going, oh, my gosh. I mean, I have signed so 
many warrants over the years as a judge--I have turned many down. Wait, 
you don't have probable cause in here. You can't just plead 
conclusions. You have to assert specific facts in your affidavit that 
supports the application for a warrant so that, as the judge, I can 
find there is probable cause a crime was committed and probable cause 
to believe there is evidence that I am going to specify they can be 
found at this specific location. Being abused like crazy.
  So here is a letter from--and this is from the attorney, Kurt 
Siuzdak. It is my understanding he is a former FBI agent. He sets out 
to Director Wray:

       Under 28 CFR Part 27, you are advised that an anonymous 
     employee of the Federal Bureau of Investigation is making a 
     protected disclosure to the United States Congress and House 
     of Representatives.

[[Page H7872]]

       The anonymous employee is reporting to you and Congress 
     that executives in the Federal Bureau of Investigation have 
     been violating FBI security protocols that have been 
     implemented to ensure the security of classified information. 
     Since you have been Director of the FBI, many Senior 
     Executive Service (SES) officials have been wearing their 
     cell phones into SCIFs.

  That is the secure compartmentalized facilities. It is like a room 
that they can ensure is totally free. It can't be bugged. It has not 
been bugged. There is nobody with any electronic devices that could be 
hacked so that people can listen.
  I asked one of our intelligence people one time about a show that I 
saw, a movie, where a cell phone company required everybody at meetings 
to take their battery out of the phone: Does that keep a phone from 
being compromised during a meeting? He said, no, because even if you 
take the battery out--which I don't know how you do that with an Apple 
phone--but even if you take the battery out, there is another residual 
power so that your information is there when you put it back in, that 
we could still get in and we can listen to you. We can access the 
camera. We can watch.
  That certainly didn't make me feel very secure about things as long 
as there are phones around. And he said other countries are really good 
at hacking. There are some that are great at it.
  So if somebody has a phone in a meeting, we can listen, we can watch. 
So that is why you have a SCIF. And we have a couple of SCIFs here on 
Capitol Hill. You can't go in there--you can't even get near being in 
the SCIF with a cell phone. No Member of Congress is allowed. They are 
very strict. No Member is allowed to have a cell phone, a smartwatch--
those kind of things.
  The letter goes on and points out that:

       These violations have occurred at the SCIFs (special 
     compartmentalized information facilities) in field offices 
     and at a facility known as LX.
       The anonymous employee worked at LX and several field 
     offices. The anonymous employee had visibility of 
     counterterrorism, counterintelligence, and field office 
     executives. Although all FBI personnel are prohibited from 
     bringing electronic devices into SCIFs, FBI Senior Executive 
     Service personnel openly and notoriously wore phones into 
     SCIFs in ways that have made it apparent they were 
     demonstrating their power and authority to subordinates.
       These executives would walk into and out of the SCIFs 
     multiple times wearing their cell phones on their belts and 
     never stop to secure the cell phone prior to entering the 
     SCIFs. When the phone rang, some executives would exit the 
     SCIF and answer the phone, but others would start talking on 
     the phone prior to exiting the SCIFs.
       Depending on a particular cell phone's settings, apps, and 
     vulnerabilities, eavesdropping using a cell phone's 
     microphones may be considered a trivial cyber hacking exploit 
     for advanced persistent threat or hostile nation-state 
     actors. Some executives wore multiple holders which would 
     indicate they were also wearing their personal cell phones in 
     the SCIFs.
       As a result, FBI executives have willfully compromised the 
     security of FBI SCIFs since your time you became Director and 
     potentially many years prior.
       Additionally, the anonymous individual is reporting that 
     FBI executives who are involved in preparing daily briefing 
     materials for you or participating in FBI headquarters daily 
     briefings have brought classified materials to their homes to 
     ensure that they are prepared to answer questions for the 
     next day's briefings.

                              {time}  1730

  Why, that is worse than what they are accusing President Trump of.

       Although certain executives may have courier cards that 
     allow them to transport classified materials, the classified 
     materials in question were certainly not properly packaged, 
     and the courier cards do not allow FBI executives to store 
     classified material in their homes.
       The anonymous employee advised that although the FBI is 
     investigating individuals not currently employed by the FBI 
     for mishandling of classified materials, the anonymous 
     employees cannot recall a single FBI Senior Executive Service 
     official who was even reprimanded for these violations unless 
     it involved incidents in which the classified material was 
     found in public. In contrast, DOJ has prosecuted non-SES FBI 
     employees for mishandling classified information.
       One reason for the failure to hold FBI executives 
     accountable is that field office security officers generally 
     report to the special agents in charge or assistant special 
     agents in charge in the office. FBI special agents and 
     employees do not stop these notorious security violations 
     because reporting the misconduct of these executives would 
     certainly result in retaliation and would be professional 
     suicide.
       Please note the DOJ OARM has determined that anonymous 
     reports of serious misconduct can be protected disclosures. 
     Although the Department of Justice Office of Attorney 
     Recruitment Management has in section 5, subsection C of its 
     procedures for FBI whistleblower reprisal claims brought 
     pursuant to 28 C.F.R. of part 27 stated that it is not bound 
     by any ``case law of the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board, 
     the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, and any 
     other Federal court of appeals deciding a whistleblower 
     appeal from the MSPB.''

  They have made clear they are above the courts and above Congress. 
They are above everything. They will do what they please.
  Wow. And they are in charge of justice.

       You should also be aware that one of your Office of General 
     Counsel attorneys advised me that she would not accept 28 
     C.F.R. part 27 disclosures because it wasn't part of her 
     current caseload. Under that standard, OGC has completely 
     insulated you from receiving protected disclosures from 
     outside attorneys and thwarted Federal whistleblower laws and 
     regulations.

  Well, that is apparently because he is head of the FBI, and as head 
of the FBI, he is above the courts, and he is above Congress. He can do 
what he pleases.
  We saw that Merrick Garland, our Attorney General, issued an order to 
the FBI that they are not to contact any Member of Congress. So much 
for the Constitution and your constitutional rights. I am the Attorney 
General, he is saying, and I can override the Constitution, the Supreme 
Court, court of appeals, and the President. I am God when it comes to 
you, is the message. We Americans have a serious problem with a 
Director and an AG who are acting like that.
  Because after that came out about saying there were phones especially 
in the Director's and Deputy Director's SCIF, the Director sent out 
their media person to say it is a lie, that there have not been any 
cell phones allowed in or around the SCIF. Then that triggered a number 
of complaints and people coming forward to set out that the Deputy 
Director's denial was a lie.
  Mr. Speaker, may I ask how much time is remaining.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman has 21 minutes remaining.
  Mr. GOHMERT. I needed to know the time because I have to play by the 
rules. I can't act like I am the Attorney General or FBI Director and 
just ignore the rules and law.
  So here is this letter again:

       Pursuant to 28 C.F.R. part 27 and the FBI's Dodson rule, 
     you are advised that an anonymous individual from the FBI is 
     making a protected disclosure.

  It goes on. This individual was an executive who recently worked at 
FBI headquarters. The person had work-related reasons for being in the 
Director's and Deputy Director's office areas on the 7th floor of the 
Hoover Building.
  While working in the 7th floor SCIF areas, the individual observed 
numerous security violations involving the presence of personal 
electronic devices such as cell phones, smartwatches, and wireless 
sports bands. The individual recently read that the FBI publicly denied 
the security violations at FBI SCIFs and specific violations by Deputy 
Director Abbate.
  The individual is reporting this issue because the FBI's denial casts 
doubt upon the credibility of the FBI employees who made the initial 
disclosure related to Mr. Abbate. This individual advised that the 
SCIFed areas where Director Wray and Deputy Director Abbate currently 
worked had multiple people wearing or displaying electronics that are 
prohibited in the SCIF.
  In fact, the FBI has explicitly limited the smart bands and watches 
in non-SCIF areas because the devices pose such a serious security 
threat.
  There is a little more. But then there is another to Mr. Abbate:
  Last week, the Federal Bureau of Investigation issued a ``categorical 
denial'' about your failure to follow proper SCIF protocols to protect 
national security.

       Keep in mind, Mr. Speaker, these are the people who are 
     condemning former President Donald Trump because they weren't 
     sure the padlock they said they had to add on top of the 
     locks he had already was good enough.

  Frankly, if I were President Trump and I had seen and heard about 
wrongdoing at the top of the FBI, and I had seen the gestapo tactics 
they have used to go after nonviolent people who used to have their 
lawyer get a call saying

[[Page H7873]]

that he needs to report at a certain time in a certain place and they 
would do it, he had seen on the news how they would leak information 
whether it is CNN or some other liberal media so that people could be 
there when they knock down the door or drug people out of bed in their 
underwear and took them outside--the FBI didn't used to do that. Now, 
the gestapo used to do that. That is what they would do because they 
were about intimidation, threats, and torture if necessary.

  But when somebody is nonviolent, no criminal history, and they are 
obviously not a threat, you are going to bring a full SWAT team so you 
can drag them out of bed?
  One family reported that her 18-year-old daughter was grabbed by the 
hair and drug upstairs to show where something was.
  For heaven's sake, what happened to the professionalism at the FBI 
and the Department of Justice?
  Anyway, this letter says:

       You also seem to have decided that ``good of the Bureau'' 
     equates to the good of Paul Abbate. It does not. The FBI lied 
     to the American people to protect you, which is shameful.
       By issuing an absolute denial of your misconduct, you also 
     implicitly claimed that the two individuals who reported the 
     misconduct made false statements. This assertion is also 
     false. Thinking back, you are certainly aware that many of 
     your subordinates saw you wearing the phone in the SCIF. Now, 
     your subordinates are coming forward, and their reports are 
     far more damning to you and Mr. Wray.
       You, Mr. Wray, and the employees on the 7th floor violated 
     national security because you were all too lazy to secure the 
     devices.

  He put our most precious and most confidential secrets at risk 
because of his arrogance.

       When SSA Schoffstall--he is a special agent in charge out 
     West--emailed you requesting that you rescind the reprisals 
     by Salt Lake City's SAC Dennis Rice--special agent in charge. 
     Wray's and your replies to Schoffstall were ``deleted, not 
     read.''

  They didn't want to know about reprisals for doing his job and 
protecting the brand.

       This supervisor refused to allow his subordinates to be 
     pressured to lie, and you refused to help him.

  That was what he did wrong. His subordinates were being pressured to 
sign a lie under oath that they knew was a lie, and they wouldn't sign, 
which would be a crime to swear under oath to something you know is not 
true. They were being demanded to sign a lie under oath. They wouldn't 
do it. When their Special Agent in Charge Schoffstall defended them and 
said: No, you can't make my agents sign a statement that they are 
telling you is a lie. Sure, we understand you want those things in 
there because you need them to have probable cause, but we are telling 
you they are not true.
  So, the supervisor was punished for protecting the honesty and 
integrity of his field agents.
  What do Director Wray and Deputy Director Abbate do about it? We 
don't want to hear about it. We would delete it, and we didn't read it 
because we don't want to know about the pressure on agents in the field 
to lie on affidavits.
  Who is going to investigate that? Oh, the DOJ. The DOJ has a little 
group of lawyers. They will look into it.
  What a ridiculous system. They need oversight, and this Congress sure 
isn't going to have oversight because they want them to keep coming up 
with stuff to go after Donald Trump.
  The letter goes on:

       This supervisor refused to allow his subordinates to be 
     pressured to lie, and you refused to help. If you want to 
     understand how that feels, just ask the media representative 
     who issued the denials about your personal violations in the 
     SCIF.

  Because somebody told that media rep to go out and lie and deny 
everything.

       The employees of the FBI joined because they believe in its 
     core values. They are held to the standard that every 
     employee must be truthful and accountable. You have failed on 
     both counts. You have mistaken your employees' loyalty to the 
     FBI as some misguided loyalty to you.
       In the last week, many of your agents and employees have 
     advised me that I will be ``killed'' or, as one of your 
     employees said, the FBI would issue me a one-way travel 
     voucher off the 4th floor of a hotel balcony. How pathetic it 
     is that your employees have so little faith that you can do 
     the right thing that they would believe dissent against you 
     is a life-threatening proposition.
       Before you issue any claim to mock the statement, be 
     assured that the employees who suffered death threats from 
     within the FBI in 2020 have filed protected disclosures with 
     the U.S. Congress. They begged you for help, but you and Mr. 
     Wray ignored their pleas. Their SAC refused to notify the 
     insider threat unit of the issue. Instead, the SAC opened a 
     threat investigation at the field office level, but refused 
     to assign an investigator to conduct the investigation.
       Your employees have abandoned you because you abandoned 
     them. There is nothing more that you can do for the FBI, you 
     have demonstrated your lack of honesty and accountability. 
     Please find a job that does not require either of those 
     traits.

                              {time}  1755

  Another letter that came after the denial, according to these people 
is that is an outright lie from the top floor of the FBI.

       The individuals have advised that they were associated with 
     an FBI unit called Defensive Electronic Countermeasure Group, 
     which is responsible for conducting electronic countermeasure 
     sweeps in various FBI facilities. This individual or 
     individuals was/were involved in a sweep of the Director's 
     office and Deputy Director's office, including the conference 
     areas inside the Hoover Building's 7th floor SCIFs.

  It is their job to check for the security of these places.

       During the sweep, dozens of electronic signals, including 
     WiFi and Bluetooth signals, were emanating from within the 
     ``SCIFed'' area. FBI cell phones, personal cell phones, and 
     high-technology smartwatches were present in the FBI SCIFs.

  According to the people who officially surveyed the SCIFs.

       There were phones on desks. It did not even appear that the 
     director's office employees were trying to hide the devices. 
     The devices in the SCIF were the type that had cameras 
     included within them.

  Meaning, they can be hacked, and if people know what they are doing, 
they can take pictures, they can see what is going on through the phone 
that was left in the secured location. So much for protecting things. 
At least that wasn't the situation at Mar-a-Lago.

       The SCIFs on the 7th floor of the FBI Hoover Building in 
     Washington, D.C., are, for all intents and purposes, 
     compromised. This includes the whole Director's and Deputy 
     Director's areas.

  They are the ones that are going to protect us from situations like a 
former President having documents.

       These areas are where the most significant threats and most 
     important top secret information in the United States are 
     discussed. You and your executives have created one of the 
     critical security threats to the United States. Because 
     Director Wray and you work in this office area, there is no 
     doubt that you both are aware of the violations. Please do 
     not accuse your employees of lying because you cannot admit 
     the truth.
       It appears that you, the executives, and the staff of the 
     7th floor of the FBI building have formed a conspiracy to 
     violate security practices to protect national security 
     simply because you are not disciplined enough to properly 
     store your electronic devices.

  As time concludes, let me finish part of a disclosure regarding the 
Defensive Electronic Group that surveys these security SCIFs. This 
person said:

       I was responsible for Technical Surveillance 
     Countermeasures worldwide. Recently, I participated in an 
     exam of the J. Edgar Hoover Building, specifically the 
     conference room for the Deputy Director of the FBI. During 
     the exam I observed dozens of strong Bluetooth signals.

  That is in the SCIF that is protected from Bluetooth signals or any 
WiFi.

       As I began looking for possible sources, I observed cell 
     phones on desks and in use inside the SCIF. I had just begun 
     looking for them when the chief security officer responsible 
     for that area shut me down.

  He was doing his job. He/she--whatever the pronouns are--was doing 
the job they were hired to do. Yet, they were shut down for doing it so 
that the Director or the Deputy Director's area could remain completely 
unsecured because they didn't want him to be reported.

       He specifically directed me not to pursue it or take any 
     action. As you know, cell phones are not permitted inside a 
     SCIF. Based on the readings I observed, I believe every 
     employee there was violating the cell phone policy.

  That is at the top of the FBI. The DOJ doesn't appear to be concerned 
about security. If they were, they wouldn't have hired a Putin-lackey 
to provide false information so they could get a fraudulent warrant--
six of them--to pursue and spy on the Trump campaign.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

[[Page H7874]]

  

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 7 (Tuesday, January 11, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S139-S142]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                               Filibuster

  Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I rise today to deliver I think one of my 
more important speeches that I will give as a Member of this body, and 
that is to defend the longstanding rules of the U.S. Senate.
  We are at a critical moment, make no mistake. With the slimmest of 
majorities, the Democrats haven't been able to pass their wildly 
unpopular agenda, so they are considering using the nuclear option--
just think of the term ``nuclear option'' to show you how draconian it 
is--to eliminate the Senate's 60-vote threshold for legislation. They 
are doing it under the guise of protecting voting rights, but make no 
mistake--this power grab is not about voting rights. Instead, it is 
about advancing one party's agenda.
  So I would like to take a look back at what Democrats, including 
President Biden, have said on the issue and why they are changing their 
tune. We can also debunk the argument that, if given the chance, 
Republicans would change the rules and eliminate the filibuster as the 
Democrats wish to do now.

  Finally and most important to me, I am going to talk about how this 
shortsighted move would impact West Virginians, those whom I represent 
here in the Senate. They are the ones who will ultimately be hurt by 
this reckless and irresponsible change, and it is my responsibility to 
do what I can to stop it.
  So President Biden is in Atlanta today, taking the bully pulpit to 
protest a State's law that he does not like as a reason to end the 
filibuster. He even says this is one of those defining moments. It 
really is. People are going to be judged as to where they were before 
and where they are after the vote.
  It is interesting that he would say that because I would like to 
remind President Biden where he was when he was Senator Biden and what 
he had to say about eliminating the filibuster on this very floor in 
2005.
  He said:

       It is not only a bad idea; it upsets the constitutional 
     design, and it disservices the country.

  Well, Senator Biden, I couldn't agree more. But he is not the only 
one who has done a complete 180 when it comes to the filibuster.
  Majority Leader Schumer once said it would be ``doomsday for 
democracy''--that sounds pretty bad, ``doomsday for democracy''--if the 
filibuster were to be eliminated, and he was right. More recently, he 
has called the filibuster the most important distinction between the 
House and the Senate. Again, I couldn't agree more.
  Then, from my home State of West Virginia, the late Senator Robert 
Byrd, a longtime Democrat, was unequivocal in his defense of preserving 
Senate rules.
  He wrote in 2010:

       The Senate has been the last fortress of minority rights 
     and freedom of speech in this Republic for more than two 
     centuries. I pray that Senators will pause and reflect before 
     ignoring that history and that tradition in favor of the 
     political priority of the moment.

  What would he say today?
  Again, this is not about voting rights. It is important to note that 
we did have a record turnout in 2020. More people voted than ever 
before. More than 158 million ballots were cast in 2020, which is a 7-
percent increase from 2016, and we didn't have this voting rights 
legislation. In West Virginia, we had thousands more people vote than 
voted in 2016. As a matter of fact, the total number of ballots that 
were cast in 2020 was more than in any election in our history with one 
exception--the 1960 election of President John F. Kennedy.
  So don't believe the hyperbole. Don't believe the rhetoric. Don't 
take the bait. The party-wide flip-flop we are now seeing has nothing 
to do with voting rights. Instead, it has everything to do with paving 
the way for an aggressive and progressive agenda that the Democrats 
wish to enact.
  One of the arguments from the other side that I hear all the time is, 
well, the Republicans would do the same thing and change the rules if 
given the chance. Guess what. We could have done that. Unfortunately, 
that argument doesn't carry much weight. Leader McConnell, while 
sometimes under intense pressure to do this, never wavered, and we 
protected this institution. We didn't change the rules on the 
legislative filibuster when we didn't get our way. We could have, but 
we didn't.
  Again, he knows, just as President Biden and Leader Schumer know, 
that if you can't get what you want, changing the rules is no way to 
govern. I certainly wouldn't run my household like that. It is no way 
to govern because it ultimately hurts those who sent us here to 
represent them.
  In my home State of West Virginia, do you know what they want? They 
want us to work together like they saw us do on the bipartisan 
infrastructure bill. I hear this all the time. Bipartisanship is 
critical to making good and better policy, and if the Senate rules are 
changed, it would be a relic of the past. We just passed and signed 
into law the infrastructure bill that I worked to negotiate. We also 
passed the CARES Act. We passed opioid. We passed the Great American 
Outdoors Act--bipartisan.
  We can do this, but if we change the rules to where only 50 votes are 
needed to pass legislation, there will be zero incentive or motivation 
for the two sides to work together. Just as bad, legislative 
accomplishments could be done or undone or redone and done over and 
over with just one flip of a Senate seat. Policies harmful to my State 
could be enacted: the Green New Deal, court packing, the federalizing 
of our elections. By the way, 54 of my 55 county clerks oppose that 
legislation. There would be packing the Senate with new States, 
defunding the police, attacking

[[Page S140]]

the Second Amendment for law-abiding Americans, and more.
  We don't even have to imagine what the Democrats would do or would 
want to do; we can just look at New York and what they just did. They 
are going to allow 800,000 noncitizens to vote. To put that in context, 
in my State of West Virginia, we only had 794,000 voters who voted for 
President in 2020.
  Ramming radical policies through Congress without even attempting to 
gain consensus is not what our Founders envisioned, and it is not how 
Americans want us to operate.
  Rest assured, those willing to change the rules to benefit themselves 
will do it again and again and again. Today, supposedly, it is voting 
rights. Tomorrow, it could be gun control. The next day, it could be 
open borders. I can only imagine.
  I am asking my fellow Senators on the other side of the aisle: Don't 
do this. You will come to regret it, I think, if you do.
  But I think that we need to preserve the rights of the minority.
  We need to preserve the chance for bipartisanship. We need to 
preserve the traditions of the Senate. If you destroy this tradition, 
unfortunately, the country will suffer the consequences.
  Thank you.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Kansas.
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. President, I may be one of the Senate's newest 
Members, but that does not mean I don't understand the importance of 
the filibuster to this body or to this Nation as a whole.
  Like Senators before me, I have observed the practice from the other 
side of the Capitol as a Member of the House and have heard the calls 
from a frustrated majority to eliminate it for the sake of jamming 
through an agenda and cashing in the political gain that would come 
from doing so.
  But anyone who has an appreciation for our founding knows the purpose 
of the filibuster is indeed to frustrate the majority, to serve as an 
additional check in our government, and drive consensus and 
cooperation. Its purpose is to protect the rights of the minority and 
prevent the tyranny of the majority--in short, to save us from 
ourselves.
  The Senators supporting the majority leader's effort to eliminate the 
60-vote threshold seemed to once understand this too. Just a few years 
ago, 25 of them cosigned a letter opposing ``any effort to curtail the 
existing rights and prerogatives of Senators to engage in full, robust, 
and extended debate.''
  Sadly, we are now witnessing the most blatant hypocritical policy 
switch we have ever seen, as many current Democrat Senators and the 
President have abandoned these principles.
  This flip-flop appears to be all in the name of greed and power. They 
want to break the filibuster so they can break other institutions, such 
as the Supreme Court and State-run elections, to rig our political 
system in their favor because they can't win on their own radical 
socialist policies.
  Without the filibuster, we will see tax laws, immigration rules, and 
more major policy go up and down like a roller coaster, negatively 
impacting our economy, creating uncertainty, and making it impossible 
for long-term business planning.
  The filibuster is meant to force both parties to work together to 
come up with long-lasting policies which will help all Americans.
  Take, for example, voting legislation. I want to make it easier to 
vote and harder to cheat--easier to vote, harder to cheat. With Nancy 
Pelosi's power grab act and other radical election proposals, the 
Democrats want to let the Federal Government take over our elections, 
which is unconstitutional, make it easier to commit fraud, pave the way 
for mass ballot harvesting, let felons vote, take integrity out of the 
elections process by prohibiting voter ID--something I am proud to say 
Kansas requires, voter identification, and it is working--and, finally, 
route taxpayer dollars toward funding political candidates they may not 
agree with.
  I hope that Members of this body can come together, in a bipartisan 
way, to tackle the important issue of election integrity without 
destroying the 60-vote threshold in the Senate.
  We have shown, in recent weeks, we can work together in a bipartisan 
fashion. The Senate voted 88 to 11 to pass the annual Defense 
authorization bill in December. The HELP Committee is currently working 
through a bipartisan bill to help tackle future pandemics. We can still 
tackle major issues in the Senate without abandoning our principles.
  The right to extended debate for Members of this body has been 
preserved for two centuries, longer than the constitutional method of 
electing Senators via their home State legislature, which was ended 
when the 17th Amendment was ratified.
  It is a dark day that Senators are being forced to come to the Senate 
floor to defend the 60-vote threshold. It would be one of the body's 
darkest days if 51 Senators changed the rules and removed our rights to 
robust debate and the right of our home States to have equal 
representation in this most distinguished legislative body. And it will 
come back to haunt them.
  The answer to these partisan times is not to double down on 
partisanship and blow up the filibuster. I pray cooler and wiser heads 
will prevail, and we will maintain this important function of the 
Senate. Otherwise, our Nation is destined to become a winner-takes-all 
system, where the rights of the minority will never again be 
considered, and our Nation will suffer for it.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from North Carolina.
  Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I rise today to express my opposition to 
the majority leader's plan to change the Senate rules. It will open the 
door wide for the filibuster to be eliminated for all legislation 
moving forward.
  The bottom line is very simple: The ideologues in the Senate want to 
turn what the Founding Fathers called the ``cooling saucer of 
democracy'' into the rubberstamp of dictatorship. They want to because 
they can't get their way. They want to wash away 200 years of history. 
They want to turn this country into a banana republic, where if you 
can't get your way, you change the rules. It would be a doomsday for 
democracy.
  These are strong words, and these are wise words, but they are not my 
words. They are direct quotes from Senator Schumer back in 2005, when 
he was a staunch opponent of weakening the filibuster. That is because 
during that time, the then-junior Senator from New York and his 
Democratic colleagues were making unprecedented use of the filibuster 
to derail President George W. Bush's judicial nominees.
  The majority leader at one point profoundly admitted that ``[y]es, we 
are blocking judges by filibuster. That is part of the hallowed process 
around here of the Founding Fathers saying the Senate is the cooling 
saucer.''
  But things have certainly changed two decades later.
  President Biden, the majority leader, and their Democratic allies 
were intent on ending the filibuster the second the Democrats won the 
Senate last January.
  The majority leader's latest attempt is to force a carve-out of the 
filibuster for what he claims will be just for one piece of 
legislation. But he knows where it leads: the full elimination of the 
filibuster and sooner rather than later.
  I thought my friend the senior Senator from West Virginia put it 
perfectly last week. He said:

       The problem with carve-outs is that you end up eating the 
     whole bird.

  There is no such thing as a carve-out when it comes to the 
filibuster. We all know it. I will talk a little bit about that later.
  But for more than a century, the filibuster has served as a safeguard 
for our Republic. It has prevented one party from ramming through an 
ideological agenda when that party controls both the White House and 
Congress.
  Without the filibuster, both the far left and the far right would 
have free rein to ram through extreme ideological agendas. Divisive 
partisan proposals could become law with only a simple majority. And 
with both parties regularly trading control of Congress, laws can just 
as easily be overturned and replaced, promoting the kind of chaotic, 
confusing policymaking we see in some European Parliaments.
  By requiring 60 votes to end debate in the Senate, the filibuster 
promotes stability. It necessitates bipartisan compromise to pass 
legislation. That is something we need more of, not less.

[[Page S141]]

  I saw it firsthand when I was a proud participant in the passage of 
the bipartisan infrastructure bill. That is the way this Chamber needs 
to work.
  That is why when President Trump demanded, I think some 30 times, 
that the Republicans should eliminate the filibuster in 2017, 61 
Senators joined together in a letter making it clear that we would not 
let it happen. Thirty-two were Democrats, and 29 were Republicans. I 
was one of them.
  And even though I received my fair share of pushback from my side of 
the aisle back in North Carolina, I was proud to sign that letter in 
2017, and I would be proud to sign that letter today.
  Unfortunately, this modest display of political courage has not been 
reciprocated by many of my friends on the other side of the aisle. 
Twenty-seven of the Senators who signed that letter are still in the 
Senate. Twenty-six of them are now supporting the full elimination of 
the filibuster. What changed? Nothing except the party in power.
  Democrats staunchly defended and used the filibuster when Donald 
Trump was President at an unprecedented level, but Democrats are 
suddenly against the filibuster now that Joe Biden is President. Many 
of my Democratic colleagues are practicing situational principles: 
putting their own party's short-term interests ahead of what they know 
are the best long-term interests for the Senate and the Nation. It 
doesn't get more politically cynical than that.
  President Biden served in the Senate for 36 years. He was known as a 
strong defender of the institution, including the filibuster. In this 
very Chamber, 21 years ago, Senator Biden declared that defending the 
filibuster was about defending ``compromise and moderation.'' And he 
noted that his speech was one of the most important he would ever give. 
But now he favors destroying compromise, moderation, and the 
institution he had long cherished, all for the sake of political 
expediency for the next 12 months, until Republicans take back the 
House and most likely the Senate.
  As I noted earlier, the majority leader also shares a partisan double 
standard with the President. In a ``Dear Colleague'' letter just 
earlier this month, he wrote that ``Senate Democrats must urge the 
public in a variety of different ways to impress upon their Senators 
the importance of acting and reforming the Senate rules, if that 
becomes a prerequisite for action to save our democracy.''
  The Senate rule change he refers to is carving out the filibuster in 
order to pass one of the far left's priorities; that is, the voting 
bill that many of my Members or colleagues have talked about today.
  But in 2018, the then-Senate minority leader struck a different tone. 
He said:

       The legislative filibuster . . . is the most important 
     distinction between the Senate and the House. Without the 60-
     vote threshold for legislation, the Senate becomes a 
     majoritarian institution like the House . . . no Senator 
     would like to see that happen.

  What is the difference between today and only a few short years ago? 
Again, it is the party that is in power.
  This same pattern of situational principles also applies to the 
majority whip. He went on national television when Donald Trump was 
President to warn that eliminating the filibuster ``would be the end of 
the Senate as it was originally devised.''
  That is Senator Durbin.
  But less than 4 years later, after Democrats won control of the White 
House and the Senate, the majority whip has a much different take. He 
recently declared that ``the filibuster is making a mockery of the 
American democracy.'' He made that statement after he and his fellow 
Democrats used the filibuster a recordbreaking 328 times between 2019 
and 2020, when President Trump was in office. That level hypocrisy is 
audacious, even by Washington, DC, standards.
  And I know Democrats have been pushing back on this claim, claiming 
they are not trying to end the filibuster. They assure us that this is 
a one-time deal that will only apply to this one bill.
  I would refer them to Newton's third law of physics: ``For every 
action, there is an equal and opposite action.'' It most definitely 
applies to Senate rules as well.
  In 2013, Senate Democrats invoked the nuclear option to end the 60-
vote cloture requirement on judicial and Executive nominees other than 
the Supreme Court. All Republicans, and even a handful of Democrats, 
including the senior Senator from West Virginia, pleaded with the 
Democrats not to do it.
  Minority Leader McConnell warned Democrats at the time that ``you'll 
regret this, and you might regret it even sooner than you think.'' But 
they did it anyway. And, indeed, there was that reaction.
  Four years later, Republicans controlled the Senate, and we used the 
nuclear option to finish what our Democratic colleagues started on the 
executive calendar. We ended the 60-vote requirement for Supreme Court 
nominees.
  There is a clear precedent on what happens when we change the Senate 
rules on a partisan basis for political expediency. It produces long-
term consequences that I believe both sides will ultimately regret.
  Democrats invoked the nuclear option to get more district judges, but 
by doing so, they paved the path for Justice Gorsuch, Justice 
Kavanaugh, and Justice Barrett, who now sit on the Supreme Court today.
  What do we think now if the Democrats nuke the filibuster for just 
one bill? The Senate rule change that the majority leader is pushing is 
really a proxy vote for ending the legislative filibuster altogether 
and turning the Senate into the House, full stop.
  So I ask my Democratic colleagues to consider this: When President 
Trump called for ending the filibuster, a large majority of Republican 
Senators stood up to preserve bipartisanship and to protect and respect 
this institution. Now, the roles are reversed. President Biden and the 
majority leader are demanding that you give them your vote to weaken 
the filibuster so it can ultimately be ended.
  To my Democratic colleagues who signed on to the very same letter I 
did in difficult circumstances, I ask you: Will you stand up for the 
principles that you stood for just a few years ago and respect and 
defend this institution?
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Utah.
  Mr. ROMNEY. Mr. President, I prepared some remarks to give this 
evening, but I had the occasion to watch President Biden as he spoke in 
Georgia just a few minutes ago, and he said quite a number of things 
that simply weren't true. He also accused a number of my good and 
principled colleagues in the Senate of having sinister, even racist 
inclinations. He charged that voting against his bill allies us with 
Bull Connor, George Wallace, and Jefferson Davis--so much for unifying 
the country and working across the aisle.
  More troubling, however, he said that the goal of some Republicans is 
to ``turn the will of the voters into a mere suggestion.'' And so 
President Biden goes down the same tragic road taken by President 
Trump: casting doubt on the reliability of American elections.
  This is a sad, sad day. I expected more of President Biden, who came 
into office with a stated goal of bringing the country together.
  Now, our country has defied the odds for a democratic republic. It 
has survived and thrived for over 200 years. The character of the 
American people deserves most of the credit for that, but close behind 
are our vital institutions. Over the last several years, many of us 
recoiled as foundational American institutions have been repeatedly 
demeaned: The judiciary was charged with racial bias. The press was 
called the enemy of the people. Justice and intelligence agencies were 
belittled. Public health agencies were dismissed. Even our election 
system was accused of being rigged.
  The U.S. Senate is one of our vital democratic institutions, and the 
power given to the minority in the Senate and the resulting requirement 
for political consensus are among the Senate's defining features. Note 
that in the Federal Government empowerment of the minority is 
established through only one institution: the Senate.
  The majority decides in the House. The majority decides in the 
Supreme Court. The President, of course, is a majority of one. Only in 
the Senate does the minority restrain the power of the majority. That a 
minority should be afforded such political power is a critical element 
of this institution.

[[Page S142]]

  For a law to pass in the Senate, it must appeal to Senators in both 
parties. This virtually assures that the bill did not originate from 
the extreme wing of either one and, thus, best represents the interests 
of the broadest swath of Americans. The Senate's minority empowerment 
has meant that America's policies inevitably tack towards the center. 
As Senator Biden previously affirmed: ``At its core, the filibuster is 
not about stopping a nominee or a bill, it is about compromise and 
moderation.''
  Consider how different the Senate would be without the filibuster. 
Whenever one party replaced the other as majority, tax and spending 
priorities would change, safety net programs would change, national 
security policy could change, cultural issues would careen from one 
extreme to the other--creating uncertainty and unpredictability for 
families, for employers, and for our friends abroad.
  The need to marshal 60 votes requires compromise and middle ground. 
It empowers the minority. And it has helped to keep us centered as a 
nation, fostering the stability and predictability that are essential 
for investments in people, in capital, and in the future. Abandoning 
the principle of minority empowerment would fundamentally change a 
distinct and essential role of the U.S. Senate.
  But today's Democrats, now with the barest of majorities in a 50-50 
Senate, conveniently ignore their own impassioned defense of the 
filibuster when they were in the minority. Let us be clear that those 
who claim the filibuster is racist know better.
  For President Obama to make this absurd charge after he, himself, 
made a vigorous and extensive defense of the filibuster just a few 
years ago is both jarring and deeply disappointing. After all, I don't 
recall a single claim from Democrats that employing the filibuster 
hundreds of times over the last several years when they were in the 
minority was in any way racist.

  Over the course of my life, I have found that when presented with a 
matter of personal advantage that would require abandoning principles, 
the human mind goes to work overtime to rationalize taking that 
advantage.
  Only a few months ago, some of my Senate Democratic colleagues 
rationalized that the Senate couldn't function and, therefore, they had 
to get rid of the 60-vote rule. But then the Senate functioned quite 
well when it passed the infrastructure bill, armed services 
legislation, and a bill on innovation.
  So, a few months later, some of these colleagues argued that in order 
to raise the debt ceiling, the 60-vote rule has to go. Then, with 
bipartisan cooperation, the Senate raised the debt ceiling.
  So now, the Democrats' latest rationalization is that their partisan 
new election law must be passed. But Democrats have filed these voting 
bills numerous times over numerous years, always without seeking 
Republican involvement in drafting them. Anytime legislation is crafted 
and sponsored exclusively by one party, it is obviously an unserious, 
partisan effort.
  Let me note two more truths. The country is sharply divided right 
now. Despite the truth spoken by a number of good people in my party, 
most Republicans believe Donald Trump's lie that the 2020 election was 
fraudulent, stolen by Democrats. That is almost half the country.
  Can you imagine the anger that would be ignited if they see Democrats 
alone rewrite, with no Republican involvement whatsoever, the voting 
laws of the country? If you want to see division and anger, the 
Democrats are heading down the right road.
  There is also a reasonable chance Republicans will win both Houses in 
Congress and that Donald Trump himself could once again be elected 
President in 2024. Have Democrats thought what it would mean for them 
for the Democrat minority to have no power whatsoever?
  And finally, Mr. President, I offer this thought: How absurd is it to 
claim that, to save democracy, a party that represents barely half the 
country must trample on the rules of our democracy's senior 
institution?
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Rhode Island.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 129 (Tuesday, August 2, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3840-S3841]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                           Ayman Al-Zawahiri

  Madam President, at 6:18 a.m. this past Sunday morning, in a wealthy 
neighborhood in Kabul, Afghanistan, two U.S. Hellfire missiles 
delivered justice--at last--to al-Qaida leader Ayman al-Zawahiri. Al-
Zawahiri is dead, and the world is better for it. He was a terrible man 
who brought horrific suffering to countless numbers of people, innocent 
people, throughout the world.
  He was second in command to Osama bin Laden during 9/11, which 
claimed nearly 3,000 innocent American lives. He was the mastermind 
behind the bombings of the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998 
and behind the bombing of the USS Cole in the Yemeni port in 2000. He 
claimed to act on behalf of Islam; yet his hands were stained with the 
blood of innocence, including of countless Muslims.
  Since the death of bin Laden 11 years ago, Zawahiri has been the 
leader of al-Qaida. He has been rumored variously to be hiding in the 
tribal areas of Pakistan and Afghanistan. He was finally discovered 
living with his family in a wealthy neighborhood in the center of 
Kabul.
  The U.S. intelligence community and the CIA deserve great credit for 
their careful, professional work over months to verify Zawahiri's 
location and identity. President Biden also deserves credit. At least 
three U.S. Presidents hunted down this man. Joe Biden's administration 
finally succeeded in ridding the world of this terrible person.
  The war in Afghanistan was America's longest war by far--20 bloody 
years. Donald Trump, before he left office, set the deadline to end 
that war--a decision that Joe Biden inherited and America completed 1 
year ago this month. I supported that decision to withdraw the troops 
from Afghanistan. At the same time, President Biden and military 
leaders warned extremists not to confuse the withdrawal of American 
boots on the ground with any reduction of our commitment to the fight 
against terrorism.
  The death of Zawahiri is proof that those who harm U.S. citizens, 
U.S. troops, and U.S. interests will find no safe quarter in this 
world.


                            PACT Act of 2022

  Madam President, you don't have to go to Ground Zero in New York or 
to the Pentagon or to the field in Shanksville, PA, to see the 
reminders of the terrible suffering that came out of 9/11; you can walk 
outside of the Senate Chamber and see Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and 
their families, who still bear the scars of war.
  For years, they and many others have urged the Veterans Health 
Administration to finally provide healthcare for the veterans who were 
exposed to toxic burn pits and other forms of deadly toxic pollution 
during their service.
  Last Thursday, many of these veterans traveled to Washington. They 
came here to see a celebration--the passage of the PACT Act--and 
President Biden promised to sign it. It is a critical bill designed to 
provide VA health services for 3.5 million toxic-exposed veterans. 
Instead of a celebration, they witnessed a betrayal. At the last 
minute, 25 Republican Senators, who had just voted for the PACT Act 6 
weeks earlier, voted against it. They voted against giving toxic-
exposed military veterans the VA healthcare they deserved.

  Since then, these veterans, their family members, and supporters have 
been holding a vigil--what they call a fire watch--on the steps of the 
Capitol. They have remained there through rain and steaming heat to 
remind us of our duty to help them.
  Veterans across this Nation and some out on the steps are sick and 
dying with cancer and other disorders because they were exposed to burn 
pits, Agent Orange, and other chemical poisons. These are wounds of 
war, and they should be treated that way. Veterans who have risked 
their lives for our freedom must not be treated as collateral damage in 
a political skirmish.
  Jon Tester, the chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, has 
shown real leadership on this. Jon states it ever so simply, and I 
think we should all remember: We have to face the real costs of war. We 
talk about our annual budgets. We talk about the body counts. We talk 
about all of the issues that face us, but we face the reality that 
those who served in our wars come home many times with physical but 
often invisible scars that haunt them for a lifetime. Those are the 
real costs of war. This bill, the PACT Act, which Jon Tester and 
Senator Moran of Kansas brought to this floor, addressed those costs.

[[Page S3841]]

  It is time for us to get it right in the U.S. Senate. There is a 
rumor on the floor that there may be an agreement that even today we 
are going to vote on this. None too soon. Those veterans who are 
waiting on the steps deserve it. Millions at home are watching this--
and their families and others who love them--in the hopes that what we 
do on the floor of the Senate will finally give them some comfort in 
their lives. The Senate must hold another vote on the PACT Act, and I 
hope it will be today. That is the rumor on the floor.
  Let's get it right this time. Let's reassemble that bipartisan 
coalition that passed the bill originally. Let's restore the faith of 
the veterans community and many Americans in the U.S. Senate. On a 
bipartisan basis, we can stand up for those who stood up and served our 
Nation.


                               January 6

  On another matter, Madam President, the last several days have 
brought a stream of troubling revelations about the disappearance of 
Secret Service and Department of Homeland Security text messages from 
around the time of the deadly January 6, 2021, insurrection on this 
Capitol. The missing texts could provide critical evidence about one of 
the worst crimes and greatest threats to our Constitution ever 
perpetrated on America. The disappearance of this critical information 
could jeopardize the efforts to learn the full truth of January 6 and 
hold responsible anyone who planned and participated in that attack.
  I don't know whether the failure to preserve these critical 
government texts of January 6 is a result of bad faith or stunning 
incompetence, but I do know that the man who has overseen this fiasco 
is not the right person to investigate it. This man has lost whatever 
credibility he may have once had on this matter. That is why I have 
asked Attorney General Merrick Garland to step in and take control of 
this investigation into the missing texts.
  This is what we know so far: Joseph Cuffari was nominated to be 
inspector general for the Department of Homeland Security by former 
President Donald Trump. He remains in that position today. The 
Department of Homeland Security includes the Secret Service and many 
other critical government Agencies. Inspectors general are supposed to 
be independent watchdogs for their Departments and make sure that the 
people working in that Department don't engage in waste, fraud, or 
abuse. If there is any problem, the inspector general is required by 
law to report it to Congress.
  In recent weeks, we learned belatedly from Mr. Cuffari, this 
inspector general, that, No. 1, his office asked the Secret Service 
last February for text messages, emails, and other records that could 
shed light on January 6, and he was met with months--months--of delay 
and stonewalling.

  Mr. Cuffari has known since at least February of this year that the 
Secret Service texts from January 6 had been erased in supposedly 
routine resets of the Agency's phones.
  Imagine that--Agencies entrusted with the security of the United 
States and when there is a handoff of official phones, they are erased 
at that time.
  Mr. Cuffari did not share that information with Congress for 5 
months--5 months.
  Mr. Cuffari also belatedly informed Congress that texts from the cell 
phones of the top two leaders in the Department of Homeland Security 
during the insurrection, Acting Secretary Chad Wolf and Acting Deputy 
Secretary Ken Cuccinelli, were apparently lost during another reset 
after they turned in their government phones.
  Imagine the fumbling of critical information about an event as 
historic as the January 6 Trump insurrectionist mob who invaded this 
Capitol.
  According to public reports, Department staff actually came up with a 
plan to retrieve the deleted emails when they first learned about them. 
Listen to this: Mr. Cuffari's office inexplicably killed the plan.
  This isn't just another government Agency we are talking about, as 
important as that would be; the Department of Homeland Security has 
some of the most sophisticated intelligence and investigative 
capabilities not just in the United States but in the world. It is hard 
to believe that this Department accidentally deleted texts that could 
shed light on one of the greatest constitutional events and crimes ever 
committed in the history of the United States, but it would be just as 
problematic if they did. Either way, we need to get to the bottom of 
this.
  This month, after news of the missing texts became public and his 
office came under criticism, Mr. Cuffari belatedly opened a criminal 
investigation into the Secret Service's missing text messages. It was 
the right thing to do, but he is the wrong person to do it. Mr. Cuffari 
has lost his credibility.
  The same law that allows Mr. Cuffari to conduct this criminal 
investigation, the Inspector General Act, gives to the Attorney General 
of the United States the power to take control of it. It is time for 
Attorney General Garland to step in and oversee this investigation with 
impartial professionalism that justice and history demand.

[House Hearing, 117 Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

=======================================================================


                                HEARING

                               BEFORE THE

                          SELECT COMMITTEE TO
                      INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH
                             ATTACK ON THE
                         UNITED STATES CAPITOL

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               __________

                             JUNE 23, 2022

                               __________

                            Serial No. 117-6

                               __________

Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th 
                    Attack on the United States Capitol
                                     

[GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT] 
                                     

        Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov

                               __________


                    U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE                    
49-353                     WASHINGTON : 2022                     
          
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------  

 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE UNITED 
                             STATES CAPITOL

               Bennie G. Thompson, Mississippi, Chairman
                    Liz Cheney, Wyoming, Vice Chair
                        Zoe Lofgren, California
                       Adam B. Schiff, California
                        Pete Aguilar, California
                      Stephanie N. Murphy, Florida
                         Jamie Raskin, Maryland
                       Elaine G. Luria, Virginia
                        Adam Kinzinger, Illinois
                            
                            COMMITTEE STAFF

                    David B. Buckley, Staff Director
      Kristin L. Amerling, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
               Hope Goins, Senior Counsel to the Chairman
           Joseph B. Maher, Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair
             Timothy J. Heaphy, Chief Investigative Counsel
                      Jamie Fleet, Senior Advisor
               Timothy R. Mulvey, Communications Director
           Candyce Phoenix, Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor
 John F. Wood, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice 
                                 Chair

Katherine B. Abrams, Staff		Thomas E. Joscelyn, Senior Professional 	 
    Associate                             Staff Member
Temidayo Aganga-Williams, Senior	Rebecca L. Knooihuizen, Financial 	 
    Investigative Counsel		  Investigator
Alejandra Apecechea, Investigative	Casey E. Lucier, Investigative Counsel 
    Counsel				Damon M. Marx, Professional Staff Member	
Lisa A. Bianco, Director of Member 	Evan B. Mauldin, Chief Clerk
    Services and Security Manager	Yonatan L. Moskowitz, Senior Counsel
Jerome P. Bjelopera, Investigator	Hannah G. Muldavin, Deputy 
Bryan Bonner, Investigative Counsel	  Communications Director
Richard R. Bruno, Senior 		Jonathan D. Murray, Professional Staff
    Administrative Assistant		  Member
Marcus Childress, Investigative 	Jacob A. Nelson, Professional Staff Member
    Counsel				Elizabeth Obrand, Staff Associate
John Marcus Clark, Security		Raymond O'Mara, Director of External
    Director				  Affairs
Jacqueline N. Colvett, Digital		Elyes Ouechtati, Technology Partner 
    Director				Robin M. Peguero, Investigative Counsel	
Heather I. Connelly, Professional	Sandeep A. Prasanna, Investigative Counsel
    Staff Member			Barry Pump, Parliamentarian
Meghan E. Conroy, Investigator		Sean M. Quinn, Investigative Counsel
Heather L. Crowell, Printer 		Brittany M. J. Record, Senior Counsel
    Proofreader				Denver Riggleman, Senior Technical Advisor
William C. Danvers, Senior 		Joshua D. Roselman, Investigative Counsel
    Researcher				James N. Sasso, Senior Investigative Counsel
Soumyalatha Dayananda, Senior 		Grant H. Saunders, Professional Staff 
    Investigative Counsel		  Member
Stephen W. DeVine, Senior Counsel	Samantha O. Stiles, Chief Administrative 
Lawrence J. Eagleburger, 		  Officer
    Professional Staff Member		Sean P. Tonolli, Senior Investigative 
Kevin S. Elliker, Investigative           Counsel
    Counsel				David A. Weinberg, Senior Professional Staff 
Margaret E. Emamzadeh, Staff 		  Member
    Associate				Amanda S. Wick, Senior Investigative 
Sadallah A. Farah, Professional 	  Counsel
    Staff Member			Darrin L. Williams, Jr., Staff Assistant
Daniel A. George, Senior 		Zachary S. Wood, Clerk
    Investigative Counsel
Jacob H. Glick, Investigative 
    Counsel
Aaron S. Greene, Clerk
Marc S. Harris, Senior 
    Investigative Counsel
Alice K. Hayes, Clerk
Quincy T. Henderson, Staff 
    Assistant
Jenna Hopkins, Professional Staff 
    Member
Camisha L. Johnson, Professional 
    Staff Member                                                           
                      
                      
                      CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS

                             Rawaa Alobaidi
                             Melinda Arons
                              Steve Baker
                            Elizabeth Bisbee
                              David Canady
                             John Coughlin
                             Aaron Dietzen
                              Gina Ferrise
                           Angel Goldsborough
                             James Goldston
                              Polly Grube
                          L. Christine Healey
                             Danny Holladay
                              Percy Howard
                              Dean Jackson
                           Stephanie J. Jones
                              Hyatt Mamoun
                               Mary Marsh
                               Todd Mason
                              Ryan Mayers
                              Jeff McBride
                               Fred Muram
                             Alex Newhouse
                              John Norton
                             Orlando Pinder
                               Owen Pratt
                              Dan Pryzgoda
                              Brian Sasser
                            William Scherer
                              Driss Sekkat
                              Chris Stuart
                            Preston Sullivan
                              Brian Young

                           Innovative Driven
                            
                            C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page

                               Statements

The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee 
  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
  Capitol........................................................     1
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to 
  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol     2
The Honorable Adam Kinzinger, a Representative in Congress From 
  the State of Illinois..........................................     4

                               Witnesses

Mr. Jeffrey Rosen, Former Acting Attorney General................     8
Mr. Richard Donoghue, Former Acting Deputy Attorney General......     9
Mr. Steven A. Engel, Former Assistant Attorney General, Office of 
  Legal Counsel, U.S. Department of Justice......................     9

                                Appendix

Prepared Statement of Jeffrey Rosen, Former Acting Attorney 
  General........................................................    43
Prepared Statement of Steven A. Engel, Former Assistant Attorney 
  General, Office of Legal Counsel, U.S. Department of Justice...    60

 
                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

                              ----------                              


                        Thursday, June 23, 2022

                     U.S. House of Representatives,
 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
                                 the United States Capitol,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 3:02 p.m., in 
room 390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson 
(Chairman of the Committee) presiding.
    Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger.
    Chairman Thompson. The Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in 
order.
    Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the 
Committee in recess at any point.
    Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 10, the 
Chair announces the Committee's approval to release the 
deposition material presented during today's hearing.
    Good afternoon.
    In our previous hearings, the Select Committee showed that 
then-President Trump applied pressure at every level of 
government, from local election workers up to his own Vice 
President, hoping public servants would give in to that 
pressure and help him steal an election he actually lost.
    Today, we will tell the story of how the pressure campaign 
also targeted the Federal agency charged with enforcement of 
our laws: The Department of Justice.
    We have already covered part of Mr. Trump's effort. We 
heard Attorney General Bill Barr tell the Committee about the 
baseless claims Mr. Trump wanted the Justice Department to 
investigate and that Mr. Barr viewed those claims as nonsense.
    Today, we will hear from Jeffrey Rosen, the person Mr. 
Trump appointed to run the Justice Department after Attorney 
General Barr resigned. We will hear from other senior Justice 
Department officials also.
    Together, these public servants resisted Mr. Trump's effort 
to misuse the Justice Department as part of his plan to hold 
onto power. We will show that Trump's demands that the 
Department investigate baseless claims of election fraud 
continued into January 2021.
    But Donald Trump didn't just want the Justice Department to 
investigate; he wanted the Justice Department to help 
legitimize his lies, to baselessly call the election corrupt, 
to appoint a special counsel to investigate alleged election 
fraud, to send a letter to six State legislatures urging them 
to consider altering the election results.
    When these and other efforts failed, Donald Trump sought to 
replace Mr. Rosen, the Acting Attorney General, with a lawyer 
who he believed would inappropriately put the full weight of 
the Justice Department behind the effort to overturn the 
election.
    Let's think about what that means.
    Wherever you live in the United States, there is probably a 
local government executive--a mayor or a county commissioner. 
There is also an official responsible for enforcing the laws--a 
district attorney or a local prosecutor.
    Imagine if your mayor lost a reelection bid but, instead of 
conceding the race, they picked up the phone, called the 
district attorney and said, ``I want you to say this election 
was stolen. I want you to tell the board of elections not to 
certify the results.''
    That is essentially what Donald Trump was trying to do with 
the election for President of the United States. It was a 
brazen attempt to use the Justice Department to advance the 
President's personal political agenda.
    Today, my colleague from Illinois, Mr. Kinzinger, and our 
witnesses will walk through the Select Committee's findings on 
these matters.
    But, first, I will recognize our distinguished Vice Chair, 
Ms. Cheney of Wyoming, for any opening statement she would care 
to offer.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    At this point, our Committee has just begun to show America 
the evidence that we have gathered. There is much more to come, 
both in our hearings and in our report. But I would like to 
take just a moment to put everything we have seen in context.
    We have already seen how President Trump falsely declared 
victory on November 3, 2020; how he and his team launched a 
fraudulent media campaign that persuaded tens of millions of 
Americans that the election was stolen from him.
    Donald Trump intentionally ran false ads on television and 
social media featuring allegations that his advisors and his 
Justice Department repeatedly told him were untrue.
    We have also seen how Donald Trump launched a fraudulent 
fundraising campaign that raised hundreds of millions of 
dollars--again--based on those same false election fraud 
allegations.
    We have seen how President Trump and his allies corruptly 
attempted to pressure Vice President Pence to refuse to count 
lawful electoral votes and obstruct Congress's proceedings on 
January 6th and how he provoked a violent mob to pursue the 
Vice President and others in our Capitol.
    We have seen how the President oversaw and personally 
participated in an effort in multiple States to vilify, 
threaten, and pressure election officials and to use false 
allegations to pressure State legislators to change the outcome 
of the election.
    We have seen how President Trump worked with and directed 
the Republican National Committee and others to organize an 
effort to create fake electoral slates and, later, to transmit 
those materially false documents to Federal officials--again--
as part of his planning for January 6th.
    We have seen how President Trump persuaded tens of 
thousands of his supporters to travel to Washington, DC, for 
January 6th. We will see in far more detail how the President's 
rally and march to the Capitol were organized and 
choreographed.
    As you can tell, these efforts were not some minor or ad 
hoc enterprise concocted overnight. Each required planning and 
coordination. Some required significant funding. All of them 
were overseen by President Trump. Much more information will be 
presented soon regarding the President's statements and actions 
on January 6th.
    Today, as Chairman Thompson indicated, we turn to yet 
another element of the President's effort to overturn the 2020 
election, this one involving the Department of Justice.
    A key focus of our hearing today will be a draft letter 
that our witnesses here today refused to sign. This letter was 
written by Mr. Jeff Clark with another Department of Justice 
lawyer, Ken Klukowski, and the letter was to be sent to the 
leadership of the Georgia State legislature. Other versions of 
the letter were intended for other States.
    Neither Mr. Clark nor Mr. Klukowski had any evidence of 
widespread election fraud, but they were quite aware of what 
Mr. Trump wanted the Department to do. Jeff Clark met privately 
with President Trump and others in the White House and agreed 
to assist the President, without telling the senior leadership 
of the Department who oversaw him.
    As you will see, this letter claims that the U.S. 
Department of Justice's investigations have ``identified 
significant concerns that may have impacted the outcome of the 
election in multiple States, including the State of Georgia.''
    In fact, Donald Trump knew this was a lie. The Department 
of Justice had already informed the President of the United 
States repeatedly that its investigations had found no fraud 
sufficient to overturn the results of the 2020 election.
    The letter also said this: ``In light of these 
developments, the Department recommends that the Georgia 
General Assembly should convene in special session'' and 
consider approving a new slate of electors.
    It indicates that a separate, fake ``slate of electors 
supporting Donald Trump'' has already been ``transmitted to 
Washington, DC.''
    For those of you who have been watching these hearings, the 
language of this draft Justice Department letter will sound 
very familiar. The text is similar to what we have seen from 
John Eastman and Rudy Giuliani, both of whom were coordinating 
with President Trump to overturn the 2020 election.
    When one of our witnesses today, Mr. Donoghue, first saw 
this draft letter, he wrote this: ``This would be a grave step 
for the Department to take, and it could have tremendous 
constitutional, political, and social ramifications for the 
country.''
    This Committee agrees. Had this letter been released on 
official Department of Justice letterhead, it would have 
falsely informed all Americans, including those who might be 
inclined to come to Washington on January 6th, that President 
Trump's election fraud allegations were likely very real.
    Here is another observation about this letter. Look at the 
signature line. It was written by Jeff Clark and Mr. Klukowski 
not just for Clark's signature but also for our witnesses 
today, Jeff Rosen and Richard Donoghue.
    When it became clear that neither Mr. Rosen nor Mr. 
Donoghue would sign this letter, President Trump's plan 
necessarily changed. As you will hear today, Donald Trump 
offered Mr. Clark the job of Acting Attorney General, replacing 
Mr. Rosen, with the understanding that Clark would send this 
letter to Georgia and other States and take other actions the 
President requested.
    One other point: Millions of Americans have seen the 
testimony of Attorney General Barr before this Committee. At 
one point in his deposition, the former Attorney General was 
asked why he authorized the Department of Justice to 
investigate fraud in the 2020 election at all; why not just 
follow the regular course of action and let the investigations 
occur much later in time, after January 6th?
    Here is what he said.

    Attorney General Barr. I felt the responsible thing to do was to 
be--to be in a position to have a view as to whether or not there was 
fraud. And, frankly, I think the fact that I put myself in the position 
that I could say that we had looked at this and didn't think there was 
fraud was really important to moving things forward. And I--I sort-of 
shudder to think what the situation would have been if the--if the 
position of the Department was, ``We're not even looking at this until 
after Biden's in office.'' I'm not sure we would have had a transition 
at all.

    Vice Chair Cheney. I want to thank each of our witnesses 
before us today for your role in addressing and rebutting the 
false allegations of fraud at the root of January 6th. Thank 
you for standing up for the Constitution and for the rule of 
law.
    Of course, not all public officials behaved in the 
honorable way our witnesses did. At the close of today's 
hearing, we will see video testimony by three members of Donald 
Trump's White House staff. They will identify certain of the 
Members of Congress who contacted the White House after January 
6th to seek Presidential pardons for their conduct.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, the Chair recognizes 
the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. Kinzinger, for an opening 
statement.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and 
thank you to our witnesses for being here.
    I would like to start with a personal story.
    So, in May 2009, I returned from service in Iraq and I 
announced my intention to run for Congress. A big reason I 
decided to run for Congress was my motivation to ensure freedom 
and democracy were defended overseas.
    I remember making a commitment--out loud a few times and in 
my heart repeatedly, even to today--that if we are going to ask 
Americans to be willing to die in service to our country, we as 
leaders must at least be willing to sacrifice our political 
careers when integrity and our oath requires it. After all, 
losing a job is nothing compared to losing your life.
    Within the halls of power, in the face of a President, that 
commitment can easily be forgotten. Presidential pressure can 
be really hard to resist.
    Today, we will focus on a few officials who stood firm 
against President Trump's political pressure campaign. When the 
President tried to misuse the Department and install a loyalist 
at its helm, these brave officials refused and threatened to 
resign. They were willing to sacrifice their careers for the 
good of our country.
    The Department of Justice is unique in the executive 
branch. The President oversees the Department of Justice, yet 
the President's personal or partisan interests must not shape 
or dictate the Department's actions.
    The President cannot and must not use the Department to 
serve his own personal interest, and he must not use its people 
to do his political bidding, especially when what he wants them 
to do is to subvert democracy.
    The President cannot pervert justice, nor the law, to 
maintain his power. Justice must, both in fact and law, be 
blind. That is critical to our whole system of self-governance.
    During this hearing, you will hear time and time again 
about the President's request to investigate claims of 
widespread fraud. Our witnesses--Mr. Rosen, Mr. Donoghue, and 
Mr. Engel--stood firm in the face of overbearing political 
pressure because they understood that their oath was to the 
Constitution and not to the personal or political interests of 
the President.
    The President and his allies became keenly aware that, with 
legal challenges exhausted and electoral votes certified, their 
only hope would be a last-ditch scheme to prevent Congress from 
certifying the win, thus throwing the entire system into 
constitutional chaos.
    The President wanted the Department to sow doubt in the 
legitimacy of the election to empower his followers and Members 
of Congress to take action. If the Department could just lend 
its credibility to the conspiracies, people would have the 
justification they needed to spread the big lie.
    So President Trump ultimately wanted the Department of 
Justice to say the election was ``corrupt'' and ``leave the 
rest to me and the Republican Congressmen.''
    As you will hear today, the Department's top leadership 
refused.
    Not surprisingly, President Trump didn't take ``no'' for an 
answer. He didn't accept it from Attorney General Barr, and he 
wouldn't accept it from Mr. Rosen either. So he looked for 
another Attorney General--his third in 2 weeks. He needed to 
find someone who was willing to ignore the facts. That is not 
the norm.
    Let's look at what Attorneys General, Democrats and 
Republicans alike, have said about upholding their oath to the 
Constitution.

    Attorney General Sessions. The Attorney General ultimately owes his 
loyalty to the integrity of the American people and to the fidelity to 
the Constitution and the legitimate laws of the country. That's what 
he's ultimately required to do.
    Attorney General Holder. I will be an independent Attorney General. 
I will be the people's lawyer. If, however, there were an issue that I 
thought were that significant that would compromise my ability to serve 
as Attorney General in the way that I have described it as ``the 
people's lawyer,'' I would not hesitate to resign.
    Attorney General Mukasey. As you and I discussed, if the President 
proposed to undertake a course of conduct that was in violation of the 
Constitution, that would present me with a--a difficult, but not a 
complex, problem. I would have two choices. I could either try to talk 
him out of it or leave. Those are the choices.
    Attorney General Lynch. The Attorney General's position as a 
Cabinet member is perhaps unique from all of the Cabinet members. Yes, 
a member of the President's Cabinet, but the Attorney General has a 
unique responsibility to provide independent and objective advice to 
the President or any agency when it is sought and sometimes, perhaps, 
even when it is not sought.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Everyone in that video, from Eric Holder to 
Jeff Sessions, spoke as one about the independence of the 
Department. It is a point of pride at Justice to apply the law 
without the President's political self-interest tainting its 
actions or dictating how it uses its authorities.
    But President Trump did find one candidate at Justice who 
seemed willing to do anything to help him stay in power. Let's 
hear what President Trump's own lawyer, Eric Herschmann, had to 
say about Jeff Clark's plan to overturn the election.
    I would like to advise viewers, this video contains some 
strong language.

    Mr. Herschmann. And when he finished discussing what he planned on 
doing, I said good, fucking--excuse me, sorry--F'ing A-hole, 
congratulations. You just admitted your first step or act you take as 
Attorney General would be committing a felony and violating rule 6(e). 
You're clearly the right candidate for this job.

    Mr. Kinzinger. So who is Jeff Clark? An environmental 
lawyer, with no experience relevant to leading the entire 
Department of Justice.
    What was his only qualification? That he would do whatever 
the President wanted him to do, including overthrowing a free 
and a fair democratic election.
    President Trump's campaign to bend the Justice Department 
to his political will culminated in a showdown on January 3rd. 
Today, we will take you inside that early evening Oval Office 
meeting, where top Justice Department officials met with the 
President. At stake: The leadership and integrity of the 
Department of Justice.

    Mr. Donoghue. The meeting took about another 2\1/2\ hours from the 
time I entered. It was entirely focused on whether there should be a 
DOJ leadership change. I was sitting directly in front of the 
President. Jeff Rosen was to my right. Jeff Clark was to my left.
    Acting Attorney General Rosen. He looked at me, and I underscored, 
``Well, the one thing we know is you're not going to do anything. You 
don't even agree that the concerns that are being presented are--are 
valid. And here's someone who has--has a different view. So why 
shouldn't I do that?'' You know, that's how the discussion then 
proceeded.
    Mr. Herschmann. Jeff Clark was proposing that--uh--Jeff Rosen be 
replaced by Jeff Clark, and I thought the proposal was asinine.
    Mr. Heaphy. What were Clark's purported bases for why it was in the 
President's interest for him to step in? What would he do? What would--
how would things change according to Mr. Clark in the meeting?
    Mr. Donoghue. He repeatedly said to the President that, if he was 
put in the seat, he would conduct real investigations that would, in 
his view, uncover widespread fraud. He would send out the letter that 
he had drafted and that this was a last opportunity to sort-of set 
things straight with this defective election and that he could do it 
and he had the intelligence and the will and the desire to pursue these 
matters in the way that the President thought most appropriate.
    Mr. Herschmann. And he was making a pitch, and every time he'd get 
clobbered over the head. He would, like, say, like, you know, he would 
call to order, you know, the President--``your decision. You get the 
chance to make this decision, and, you know, you've heard everybody, 
and you can make your determination.'' And then we jump back in, and, 
you know, they would clobber him.
    Mr. Donoghue. I made the point that Jeff Clark is not even 
competent to serve as the Attorney General. He's never been a criminal 
attorney. He's never conducted a criminal investigation in his life. 
He's never been in front of a grand jury, much less a trial jury. And 
he kind of retorted by saying, ``Well, I've done a lot of very 
complicated appeals in civil litigation, environmental litigation, and 
things like that.'' And I said, ``That's right. You're an environmental 
lawyer. How about you go back to your office and we'll call you when 
there's an oil spill.'' And Pat Cipollone weighed in at one point. I 
remember saying, ``You know, that letter that this guy wants to send, 
that letter is a murder-suicide pact. It's going to damage everyone who 
touches it, and we should have nothing to do with that letter. I don't 
ever want to see that letter again.'' And so we went along those lines.
    Mr. Herschmann. I thought Jeff's proposal--Clark's proposal was 
nuts. I mean, this guy--at a certain point, ``Listen, the best I can 
tell is the only thing you know about environmental and elections 
challenges is they both start with E, and based on your answers 
tonight, I'm not even certain you know that.''
    Mr. Donoghue. The President said, ``Suppose I do this. Suppose I 
replace him, Jeff Rosen, with him, Jeff Clark. What do you do?''

    Mr. Kinzinger. Well, we know these men before us did the 
right thing.
    But think about what happens if these Justice officials 
make a different decision. What happens if they bow to the 
pressure? What would that do to us as a democracy? As a Nation?
    Imagine a future where the President could screen 
applicants to the Justice Department with one question: Are you 
loyal to me or to the Constitution? It wouldn't take long to 
find people willing to pledge their loyalty to the man.
    We know many of President Trump's vocal supporters on 
January 6th also wanted the Justice Department to do whatever 
he asked as long as it meant he could stay in power. They made 
sure Justice Department officials heard his message as they 
protested loudly in front of the Department on their way to the 
Capitol on January 6th.

    Crowd. Do your job! Do your job! Do your job! Do your job! Do your 
job!
    Voice. Live in DC, we're marching to the Capitol. We are at the 
Department of Justice right now telling these cowards to do their job!
    Voice. We're going to take the Capitol.

    Mr. Kinzinger. I want to take a moment now to speak 
directly to my fellow Republicans.
    Imagine the country's top prosecutor--with the power to 
open investigations, subpoena, charge crimes, and seek 
imprisonment--imagine that official pursuing the agenda of the 
other party instead of that of the American people as a whole.
    If you are a Democrat, imagine it the other way around.
    Today, President Trump's total disregard for the 
Constitution and his oath will be fully exposed.
    Now let's get this hearing under way so we can do our part 
to protect the freedoms that we often take for granted, so that 
we can see how close we came to losing it all.
    I now yield back to the Chairman.
    Chairman Thompson. We are joined today by three 
distinguished witnesses who each served in the Trump 
administration in the months preceding January 6th.
    Mr. Jeffrey Rosen served at the Department of Justice from 
May 2019 until January 2021. With President Trump's nomination 
and the confirmation of the U.S. Senate, he became the United 
States Deputy Attorney General. In December 2020, he took the 
mantle of Acting Attorney General.
    Mr. Richard Donoghue has served in the Department of 
Justice for over 14 years. Mr. Donoghue was a United States 
attorney for the Eastern District of New York; then became Mr. 
Rosen's Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General; and, 
finally, Acting Deputy Attorney General. Mr. Donoghue also 
served more than 20 years in the United States military, 
including the 82nd Airborne and the Judge Advocate General's 
Corps.
    We are also joined by Mr. Steven Engel, the former 
Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel. He 
was nominated by the former President and confirmed by the 
Senate during the Trump administration. He served from November 
2017 to January 2021 and has now returned to private practice.
    I will now swear in our witnesses. The witnesses will 
please stand and raise their right hands.
    [Witnesses sworn.]
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you. You may be seated.
    Let the record reflect the witnesses all answered in the 
affirmative.
    I now recognize myself for questions.
    First of all, gentlemen, thank you for being here today.
    All of you served at former President Trump's pleasure at 
the Department of Justice in top leadership positions with 
tremendous responsibilities.
    Former Attorney General Bill Barr told the Select Committee 
that, before he left the Department in December 2020, he told 
President Trump, on at least three occasions, there was no 
evidence of widespread election fraud that would have changed 
the results of the Presidential election and refuted numerous 
specific claims of election fraud the President was making.
    Mr. Rosen, after Mr. Barr announced his resignation, did 
Donald Trump continue to demand that the Department of Justice 
investigate his claims of election fraud?
    Mr. Rosen.\1\ Yes. He asserted that he thought the Justice 
Department had not done enough.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\ The prepared statement of Mr. Rosen has been included in the 
Appendix and may be found on page 43.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you.
    From the time you took over from Attorney General Barr 
until January 3rd, how often did President Trump contact you or 
the Department to push allegations of election fraud?
    Mr. Rosen. So, between December 23rd and January 3rd, the 
President either called me or met with me virtually every day, 
with one or two exceptions, like Christmas Day.
    Before that--because it had been announced that I would 
become the Acting Attorney General before the date I actually 
did--the President had asked that Rich Donoghue and I go over 
and meet with him, I believe on December 15th, as well.
    Chairman Thompson. So, after you had some of these meetings 
and conversations with the President, what things did the 
President raise with you?
    Mr. Rosen. So the common element of all of this was the 
President expressing his dissatisfaction that the Justice 
Department, in his view, had not done enough to investigate 
election fraud.
    But, at different junctures, other topics came up at 
different intervals. So, at one point, he had raised the 
question of having a special counsel for election fraud. At a 
number of points, he raised requests that I meet with his 
campaign counsel, Mr. Giuliani.
    At one point, he raised whether the Justice Department 
would file a lawsuit in the Supreme Court. At a couple of 
junctures, there were questions about making public statements 
or about holding a press conference.
    At one of the later junctures was this issue of sending a 
letter to State legislatures in Georgia or other States.
    So there were different things raised at different parts 
of--or different intervals, with the common theme being his 
dissatisfaction about what the Justice Department had done to 
investigate election fraud.
    I will say that the Justice Department declined all of 
those requests that I was just referencing because we did not 
think that they were appropriate, based on the facts and the 
law as we understood them.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you.
    So, Mr. Donoghue, on December 15th, the day after Attorney 
General Barr announced his resignation, the President summoned 
you and Mr. Rosen to the White House.
    At this meeting with the President, what did he want to 
discuss?
    Mr. Donoghue. There were a number of topics of discussion 
that day, Mr. Chairman.
    Much of the conversation focused on a report that had been 
recently released relating to Antrim County in Michigan. I 
believe on December 13th an organization called the Allied 
Security Group issued a report that alleged that the Dominion 
voting machines in that county had a 68 percent error rate.
    The report was widely covered in the media. We were aware 
of it. We obtained a copy of it on the 14th of December, the 
day prior. We circulated it to the U.S. attorneys in Michigan 
for their awareness. We had a number of discussions internally.
    But the conversation with the President on that day, the 
15th, was largely focused on that, and he was essentially 
saying, ``Have you seen this report?'' He was adamant that the 
report must be accurate, that it proved that the election was 
defective, that he, in fact, won the election, and the 
Department should be using that report to basically tell the 
American people that the results were not trustworthy.
    He went on to other theories as well, but the bulk of that 
conversation on December 15th focused on Antrim County, 
Michigan, and the ASOG report.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you.
    Mr. Engel, we know that Attorney General Barr announced on 
December 1, 2020, that the Department of Justice had found no 
evidence of widespread fraud that could have changed the 
outcome of the election.
    So, from December 1, 2020, until today, as you sit here, 
have you ever doubted that top-line conclusion?
    Mr. Engel.\2\ No, I have never had any reason to doubt 
Attorney General Barr's conclusion.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\ The prepared statement of Mr. Engel has been included in the 
Appendix and may be found on page 60.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you.
    Pursuant to section 5(c)(8) of House Resolution 503, the 
Chair now recognizes the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. 
Kinzinger, for questions.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    In the weeks leading to January 6th, the Department of 
Justice was fielding almost daily requests from the President 
to investigate claims of election fraud. Each claim was refuted 
time and time again--an effort Attorney General Barr described 
as ``Whack-A-Mole.''
    When each of the President's efforts failed, he resorted to 
installing a new Attorney General to say the election was 
illegal and corrupt simply so he could stay in power.
    President Trump started leaning on the Justice Department 
the first chance he got, on November 29th, his first television 
interview after the election.

    Ms. Bartiromo. Where is the DOJ and the FBI in all of this, Mr. 
President? You have laid out some serious charges here. Shouldn't this 
be something that the FBI is investigating?
    President Trump. Missing in action.
    Ms. Bartiromo. Are they? Is the DOJ investigating?
    President Trump. Missing in action. Can't tell you where they are.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Republican Congressmen echoed the President 
just 2 days later. They wrote a letter to Attorney General 
Barr, laying into the Justice Department for a ``shocking lack 
of action'' in investigating the claims of election fraud.
    That same day, Attorney General Barr stated publicly that 
President Trump's claims had no merit.
    Ignoring the top law enforcement officer in the country, 
Republican Congressmen amplified the ``stolen election'' 
message to the American public. Let's listen.

    Mr. Gohmert. And so there's widespread evidence of fraud 'cause 
people haven't done their jobs. Durham and Barr will deserve a big 
notation in history when it's written of the rise and fall of the 
United States if they don't clean up this mess, clean up the fraud, do 
your jobs, and save this little experiment in self-government.
    Mr. Biggs. Again, I join my colleagues in calling on Attorney 
General Ball--Barr to immediately let us know what he's doing.
    Mr. Gosar. We're already working on challenging the certified 
electors. And then what about the courts? How pathetic are the courts? 
[Crowd Boos]
    Mr. Gaetz. January 6th, I'm joining with the fighters in the 
Congress, and we are going to object to electors from States that 
didn't run clean elections. [Applause] Democracy is left undefended if 
we accept the results of a stolen election without fighting with every 
bit of vigor we can muster.
    Mr. Jordan. The ultimate date of significance is January 6. This is 
how the process works. The ultimate arbiter here, the ultimate check 
and balance, is the U.S. Congress. And when something is done in an 
unconstitutional fashion, which happened in several of these States, we 
have a duty to step forward and have this debate and have this vote on 
the 6th of January.
    Mr. Brooks. Today is the day American patriots start taking down 
names and kicking ass.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Donoghue, on December 27th, you had a 
90-minute conversation with the President where he raised false 
claim after false claim with you and Mr. Rosen.
    How did you respond to what you called a ``stream of 
allegations''?
    Mr. Donoghue. The December 27th conversation was, in my 
mind, an escalation of the earlier conversations. As the former 
Acting AG indicated, there were a lot of communications that 
preceded that. As we got later in the month of December, the 
President's entreaties became more urgent; he became more 
adamant that we weren't doing our job, we needed to step up and 
do our job.
    He had this arsenal of allegations that he wanted to rely 
on. So I felt in that conversation that it was incumbent upon 
me to make it very clear to the President what our 
investigations had revealed and that we had concluded, based on 
actual investigations, actual witness interviews, actual 
reviews of documents, that these allegations simply had no 
merit.
    I wanted to try to cut through the noise, because it was 
clear to us that there were a lot of people whispering in his 
ear, feeding him these conspiracy theories and allegations. I 
felt that being very blunt in that conversation might help make 
it clear to the President these allegations were simply not 
true.
    So, as he went through them--in what for me was a 90-minute 
conversation or so and what for the former Acting AG was a 2-
hour conversation as the President went through them, I went 
piece by piece to say, ``No, that's false, that is not true,'' 
and to correct him really in a serial fashion as he moved from 
one theory to another.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Can you give me an example of one or two of 
those theories?
    Mr. Donoghue. So one that was very clear at that point was 
the Antrim County, the ASOG report that I mentioned earlier. 
Allied Security Operations Group released this report that said 
68 percent error rate.
    There was, in fact, in Antrim County a hand recount. It had 
nothing to do with the Department. The Department did not 
request that. That was pursuant to litigation brought by other 
parties. But there was a hand recount. So they were able to 
compare the hand recount to what the machines had reported.
    For the ballots that were actually counted by machine, more 
than 15,000, there was 1 error, 1 ballot. I did a quick 
calculation and came up with .0063 percent error rate, which is 
well within tolerance.
    So I made it very clear to the President, because he was so 
fixated on the ASOG report in the December 15th conversation, 
that, in fact, our investigation revealed that the error rate 
was .0063 percent. ``So that, Mr. President, is an example of 
what people are telling you that is not true and that you 
cannot and should not be relying on.''
    So that was one very explicit one, and I think you see that 
reflected in my notes.
    We went through a series of others. The truck driver who 
claimed to have moved an entire tractor trailer of ballots from 
New York to Pennsylvania, that was also incorrect. We did an 
investigation with the FBI, interviewed witnesses at the front 
end and the back end of that trailer's transit from New York to 
Pennsylvania. We looked at loading manifests. We interviewed 
witnesses, including, of course, the driver. We knew it wasn't 
true. Whether the driver believed it or not was never clear to 
me, but it was just not true. So that was another one that I 
tried to educate the President on.
    There were a series of others, mostly in swing States. Of 
course, he wanted to talk a great deal about Georgia, the State 
Farm Arena video, which he believed for various reasons was, as 
he said it, ``fraud staring you right in the face.''
    Mr. Kinzinger. Were any of the allegations he brought up 
found credible? Did you find any of them credible?
    Mr. Donoghue. No.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So, during this conversation, did you take 
handwritten notes directly quoting the President?
    Mr. Donoghue. I did.
    To make it clear, Attorney General Rosen called me on my 
Government cell phone, said he had been on the phone with the 
President for some time, the President had a lot of these 
allegations. I was better versed in what the Department had 
done, just because I had closer contact with the 
investigations, and the AG asked me to get on the call. Of 
course, I agreed.
    I begin taking notes only because, at the outset, the 
President made an allegation I had not heard. I had heard many 
of these things; I knew many of them were investigated. But 
when the President, at least when I came to the conversation, 
when he began speaking, he brought up an allegation I was 
completely unaware of. Of course, that concerned us. So I 
simply reached out and grabbed a notepad off my wife's 
nightstand and a pen, and I started jotting it down.
    That had to do with an allegation that more than 200,000 
votes were certified in the State of Pennsylvania that were not 
actually cast. Sometimes the President would say it was 205; 
sometimes he would say it was 250. But I had not heard this 
before, and I wanted to get the allegation down clearly so that 
we could look into it, if appropriate.
    That is why I started taking those notes. Then, as the 
conversation continued, I just continued to take the notes.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Let's take a look at the notes, if we could, 
right now.
    As we can see on the screen, you actually quote President 
Trump asking, ``Where's DOJ?'', just like we heard him say in 
his first television interview.
    How did you respond to that?
    Mr. Donoghue. So both the Acting AG and I tried to explain 
to the President, on this occasion and on several other 
occasions, that the Justice Department has a very important, 
very specific, but very limited role in these elections. States 
run their elections. We are not quality control for the States.
    We are obviously interested in and have a mission that 
relates to criminal conduct in relation to Federal elections. 
We also have related civil rights responsibilities. So we do 
have an important role, but the bottom line was, if a State ran 
their election in such a way that it was defective, that is to 
the State or Congress to correct. It is not for the Justice 
Department to step in.
    I certainly understood the President, as a layman, not 
understanding why the Justice Department didn't have at least a 
civil role to step in and bring suit on behalf of the American 
people. We tried to explain that to him.
    The American people do not constitute the client for the 
United States Justice Department. The one and only client of 
the United States Justice Department is the U.S. Government.
    The U.S. Government does not have standing, as we were 
repeatedly told by our internal teams--OLC, led by Steve Engel, 
as well as the Office of the Solicitor General researched it 
and gave us thorough, clear opinions that we simply did not 
have standing. We tried to explain that to the President on 
numerous occasions.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Let's take a look at another one of your 
notes. You also noted that Mr. Rosen said to Mr. Trump, ``DOJ 
can't and won't snap its fingers and change the outcome of the 
election.''
    How did the President respond to that, sir?
    Mr. Donoghue. He responded very quickly and said, 
essentially, ``That's not what I'm asking you to do. What I'm 
just asking you to do is just say it was corrupt, and leave the 
rest to me and the Republican Congressmen.''
    Mr. Kinzinger. So let's now put up the notes where you 
quote the President, as you were speaking to that.
    You said the President said, ``Just say the election was 
corrupt, and leave the rest to me and the Republican 
Congressmen.''
    So, Mr. Donoghue, that is a direct quote from President 
Trump, correct?
    Mr. Donoghue. That is an exact quote from the President, 
yes.
    Mr. Kinzinger. The next note shows that the President kept 
pressing.
    Even though he had been told that there was no evidence of 
fraud, did the President keep saying that the Department was 
``obligated to tell people that this was an illegal, corrupt 
election''?
    Mr. Donoghue. That is also an exact quote from the 
President, yes.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Let me just be clear. Did the Department 
find any evidence to conclude that there was anything illegal 
or corrupt about the 2020 election?
    Mr. Donoghue. There were isolated instances of fraud. None 
of them came close to calling into question the outcome of the 
election in any individual State.
    Mr. Kinzinger. How would you describe the President's 
demeanor during that call?
    Mr. Donoghue. He was more agitated than he was on December 
15th. The President, throughout all of these meetings and 
telephone conversations, was adamant that he had won and that 
we were not doing our job. But it did escalate over time until 
ultimately the meeting on January 3rd, which was sort-of the 
most extreme of the meetings and conversations.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So I want to make sure we don't gloss this 
over: ``Just say it was corrupt, and leave the rest to us.''
    The President wanted the top Justice Department officials 
to declare that the election was corrupt, even though, as he 
knew, there was absolutely no evidence to support that 
statement.
    The President didn't care about actually investigating the 
facts. He just wanted the Department of Justice to put its 
stamp of approval on the lies.
    Who was going to help him? Well, Jeff Clark.
    Mr. Rosen, on Christmas Eve, your first official day as the 
Acting Attorney General, President Trump called you. What did 
he want to talk about?
    Mr. Rosen. The same things he was talking about publicly. 
He wanted to talk about that he thought the election had been 
stolen or was corrupt and that there was widespread fraud. I 
had told him that our reviews had not shown that to be the 
case.
    So we had an extended discussion, probably 15, maybe 20 
minutes, something like that, with him urging that the 
Department of Justice should be doing more with regard to 
election fraud.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Did he mention Jeff Clark's name?
    Mr. Rosen. Yes. It was just in passing. He made what I 
regarded as a peculiar reference. I don't remember the exact 
quote, but it was something about, did I know Jeff Clark, or 
did I know who he was, or something like that. I told him I 
did, and then the conversation just moved on.
    But when I hung up, I was quizzical as to, how does the 
President even know Mr. Clark? I was not aware that they had 
ever met or that the President had been involved with any of 
the issues in the Civil Division.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So it was a bit of a surprise when he 
brought his name up?
    Mr. Rosen. Yes.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So Mr. Clark was the acting head of the 
Civil Division and head of Environmental and Natural Resources 
Division at the Department of Justice.
    Do either of those divisions have any role whatsoever in 
investigating election fraud, sir?
    Mr. Rosen. No. And, to my awareness, Jeff Clark had had no 
prior involvement of any kind with regard to the work that the 
Department was doing that Attorney General Barr has talked 
about to this Committee.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So let's take a minute and explain why the 
President mentioned Jeff Clark's name to Mr. Rosen here on 
Christmas Eve.
    On December 21st, some Republican Members of Congress met 
with President Trump in the White House to talk about 
overturning the 2020 election.
    Let's hear Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene talk about 
how this meeting got set up.

    Mrs. Greene of Georgia. I was the only new Member at the meeting. I 
called President Trump on Saturday and--and said, ``We've got to have a 
meeting. There's many of us that feel like this election has been 
stolen.''

    Mr. Kinzinger. So, on the screen, you will see that 
President Trump's chief of staff, Mark Meadows, tweeted about 
that meeting right after it happened.
    He said, ``Several Members of Congress just finished a 
meeting in the Oval Office with President Donald Trump, 
preparing to fight back against mounting evidence of voter 
fraud. Stay tuned.''
    On the same day he met with these Republican Members of 
Congress, President Trump called into a conservative political 
convention, and he used the opportunity to pressure the 
Department of Justice to investigate his bogus claims.

    President Trump. The problem is we need a party that's going to 
fight, and we have some great Congressmen and--women that are doing it. 
And we have others, some great fighters. But we won this in a 
landslide. They know it, and we need backing from, like, the Justice 
Department. And other people have to finally step up.

    Mr. Kinzinger. The Select Committee obtained records from 
the National Archives that show that Scott Perry was one of the 
Congressmen who joined that meeting.
    We learned from White House records--that you will now see 
on the screen--that, the very next day, Representative Perry 
returned to the White House. This time, he brought a Justice 
Department official named Jeffrey Clark.
    Representative Perry provided the following statement to 
his local TV affiliate. He said, ``Throughout the past 4 years, 
I've worked with Assistant Attorney General Clark on various 
legislative matters. When President Trump asked if I would make 
an introduction, I obliged.''
    But why Jeff Clark? Let's hear Mr. Giuliani explain the 
kind of person that he and the President wanted at the top of 
Justice.

    Mr. George. Do you remember ever recommending to anybody that Mr. 
Clark, meaning Jeffrey Clark, at DOJ be given election-related 
responsibilities?
    Mr. Giuliani. You mean beyond the President?
    Mr. George. Correct.
    Mr. Giuliani. Well, beyond the President, I do recall saying to 
people that somebody should be put in charge of the Justice Department 
who isn't frightened of what's going to be done to their reputation 
because the Justice Department was filled with people like that.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Should put somebody that is not frightened 
of what is going to be done to their reputation.
    Mr. Donoghue, when you told the President that you wouldn't 
pursue baseless claims of fraud, was it because you were 
worried about your reputation?
    Mr. Donoghue. No. Not at all.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Clark's name was also mentioned in White 
House in late December and early January, as described by a top 
aide to Mark Meadows, Cassidy Hutchinson.

    Mr. George. Was it your understanding that Representative Perry was 
pushing for a specific person to take over the Department?
    Ms. Hutchinson. He wanted Mr. Clark--Mr. Jeff Clark to take over 
the Department of Justice.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Rosen, after your call with President 
Trump on December 24th, you spoke with Mr. Clark on December 
26th about his contact with the President.
    Can you tell us about that conversation?
    Mr. Rosen. Yes.
    Because I had been quizzical about why his name had come 
up, I called him, and I tried to explore if he would share if 
there was something I ought to know. After some back-and-forth, 
he acknowledged that shortly before Christmas he had gone to a 
meeting in the Oval Office with the President.
    That, of course, surprised me. I asked him, how did that 
happen? He was defensive. He said it had been unplanned, that 
he had been talking to someone he referred to as ``General 
Perry'' but I believe is Congressman Perry, and that, 
unbeknownst to him, he was asked to go to a meeting, and he 
didn't know it but it turned out it was at the Oval--he found 
himself at the Oval Office. He was apologetic for that.
    I said, well, you didn't tell me about it, it wasn't 
authorized, and you didn't even tell me after the fact. You 
know, this is not appropriate.
    But he was contrite and said it had been inadvertent and it 
would not happen again and that if anyone asked him to go to 
such a meeting he would notify Rich Donoghue and me.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Is there a policy that governs who can have 
contact directly with the White House?
    Mr. Rosen. Yes. So, across many administrations, for a long 
period of time, there is a policy that, particularly with 
regard to criminal investigations, restricts at both the White 
House end and the Justice Department end those more sensitive 
issues to the highest ranks.
    So, for criminal matters, the policy for a long time has 
been that only the Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney 
General, from the DOJ side, can have conversations about 
criminal matters with the White House, or the Attorney General 
and the Deputy Attorney General can authorize someone for a 
specific item with their permission.
    But the idea is to make sure that the top rung of the 
Justice Department knows about it and is in the thing to 
control it and make sure only appropriate things are done.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Engel, from your perspective, why is it 
important to have a policy like Mr. Rosen just discussed?
    Mr. Engel. Well, it is critical that the Department of 
Justice conducts its criminal investigations free from either 
the reality or any appearance of political interference.
    So people can get in trouble if people at the White House 
are speaking with people at the Department. That is why--the 
purpose of these policies is to keep these communications as 
infrequent and at the highest levels as possible, just to make 
sure that people who are less careful about it, who don't 
really understand these implications, such as Mr. Clark, don't 
run afoul of those contact policies.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you.
    So the Select Committee conducted an informal interview 
with the White House Counsel, Pat Cipollone, and his deputy, 
Pat Philbin, about their contact with Mr. Clark, though neither 
has yet agreed to sit for transcribed and videotaped 
interviews.
    But Pat Cipollone told the Select Committee that he 
intervened when he heard Mr. Clark was meeting with the 
President about legal matters without his knowledge, which was 
strictly against White House policy.
    Mr. Cipollone and Mr. Philbin, like Mr. Rosen, told Mr. 
Clark to stand down, and he didn't.
    On the same day Acting Attorney General Rosen told Mr. 
Clark to stop talking to the White House, Representative Perry 
was urging Chief of Staff Mark Meadows to elevate Clark within 
the Department of Justice.
    You can now see on the screen behind me a series of texts 
between Representative Perry and Mr. Meadows. They show that 
Representative Perry requested that Mr. Clark be elevated 
within the Department.
    Representative Perry tells Mr. Meadows on December 26th 
that, ``Mark, just checking in as time continues to count down. 
Eleven days to January 6th and 25 days to inauguration. We've 
got to get going.''
    Representative Perry followed up and says, ``Mark, you 
should call Jeff. I just got off the phone with him, and he 
explained to me why the principal deputy won't work, especially 
with the FBI. They will view it as not having the authority to 
enforce what needs to be done.''
    Mr. Meadows responds with, ``I got it. I think I 
understand. Let me work on the deputy position.''
    Representative Perry then texts, ``Roger. Just sent you 
something on Signal. Just sent you an updated file. Did you 
call Jeff Clark?''
    Mr. Donoghue, Representative Perry called you the next day, 
on December 27th. Who told him to call you?
    Mr. Donoghue. My understanding is the President did. At the 
outset of the call, Congressman Perry told me that he was 
calling at the behest of the President.
    Mr. Kinzinger. What did he want to talk about?
    Mr. Donoghue. He wanted to talk about Pennsylvania in 
particular. He gave me some background about, you know, why he 
in particular doesn't trust the FBI and why the American people 
don't necessarily trust the FBI.
    Then he went into some allegations specific to 
Pennsylvania, which included, amongst others, this allegation 
that the secretary of state had certified more votes than were 
actually cast.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Did you direct the local U.S. attorney's 
office to investigate that claim?
    Mr. Donoghue. So Mr. Perry said that he had a great deal of 
information, that investigations had been done, that there was 
some sort of forensic-type report that would be helpful to me.
    I didn't know Congressman Perry. I had never heard of him 
before this conversation. But I said, ``Sir, if you've got 
something that you think is relevant to what the Justice 
Department's mission is, you should feel free to send it to 
me.'' He did.
    I was en route from New York to Washington. I got it. I 
looked at it on my iPhone. Obviously, I couldn't read the whole 
thing in transit like that, but I looked at it to get a feel 
for what it was. Then I forwarded it to the United States 
attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Did they get back to you? What did they 
conclude?
    Mr. Donoghue. Scott Brady looked at it. He was the Western 
District of Pennsylvania U.S. attorney. Took him a couple days, 
but he got back in relatively short order with a pretty clear 
explanation for why there was no foundation for concern.
    The secretary of state had not certified more votes than 
were actually cast. The difference between the 5.25 that was 
actually certified by the secretary of state and the 5 million 
that was on a public-facing website was that the information on 
the website was incomplete because 4 counties had not uploaded 
their data.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So no credibility to that claim?
    Mr. Donoghue. There was zero to that, right.
    Mr. Kinzinger. During that call, did Scott Perry mention 
Mr. Clark? What did he say about him, if so?
    Mr. Donoghue. He did; he mentioned Mr. Clark. He said 
something to the effect of, ``I think Jeff Clark is great, and 
I think he is the kind of guy who could get in there and do 
something about this stuff.''
    This was coming on the heels of the President having 
mentioned Mr. Clark in the afternoon call earlier that day.
    Mr. Kinzinger. I would like to yield to the gentlewoman 
from Wyoming, Vice Chair Cheney.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Kinzinger. I 
thank the gentleman for yielding.
    As we discussed earlier, at the center of Mr. Clark's plan 
to undo President Trump's election loss was a letter.
    Mr. Donoghue, on December 28th, Mr. Clark emailed you and 
Mr. Rosen a draft letter that he wanted you to sign and send to 
Georgia State officials. You testified that this could have 
``grave constitutional consequences.''
    Mr. Donoghue, can you tell us what you meant by that?
    Mr. Donoghue. Well, I had to read both the email and the 
attached letter twice to make sure I really understood what he 
was proposing because it was so extreme to me I had a hard time 
getting my head around it initially.
    But I read it, and I did understand it for what he 
intended, and I had to sit down and sort-of compose what I 
thought was an appropriate response.
    I actually initially went next door to the Acting AG's 
office, but he was not there. We were both on that email. I 
knew we would both have probably a very similar reaction to it.
    He was not in his office, so I returned to my office, and I 
sat down to draft a response because I thought it was very 
important to give a prompt response rejecting this out of hand.
    In my response I explained a number of reasons this is not 
the Department's role to suggest or dictate to State 
legislatures how they should select their electors. But more 
importantly, this was not based on fact. This was actually 
contrary to the facts as developed by Department investigations 
over the last several weeks and months.
    So I responded to that. For the Department to insert itself 
into the political process this way I think would have had 
grave consequences for the country. It may very well have 
spiraled us into a constitutional crisis. I wanted to make sure 
that he understood the gravity of the situation because he 
didn't seem to really appreciate it.
    Vice Chair Cheney. What was Mr. Clark's reaction when you 
sent this email to him?
    Mr. Donoghue. He didn't respond directly to the email, but 
we met shortly after that. After I sent the email, the Acting 
AG returned. I went to his office. He had just read it. He had 
a very similar reaction to me. He was exasperated. He told me 
that he had told one of his administrative assistants to get 
Jeff Clark up here, we want to him talk face to face about 
this.
    So the three of us then had a meeting probably around 1800 
that night in the Deputy Attorney General's conference room.
    Vice Chair Cheney. One of the things that you said to Mr. 
Clark is, ``What you are doing is nothing less than the United 
States Justice Department meddling in the outcome of a 
Presidential election.''
    I assume you conveyed that to him as well in your meeting 
that evening?
    Mr. Donoghue. Yes, in those very words. It was a very 
contentious meeting. But, yes, that was said, amongst other 
things.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Despite this contentious meeting and 
your strong reaction to the letter, did Mr. Clark continue to 
push his concept in the coming days?
    Mr. Donoghue. He did, yes. We had subsequent meetings and 
conversations. The Acting AG probably had more contact with him 
than I did.
    But between the 28th and the 2nd, when we had another in-
person meeting, he clearly continued to move down this path. He 
began calling witnesses and apparently conducting 
investigations of his own.
    He got a briefing from DNI about purported foreign 
intelligence interference. We thought perhaps once it was 
explained to him that there was no basis for that part of his 
concern, that he would retreat.
    But instead, he doubled down and said, ``Well, okay, so 
there is no foreign interference. I still think there are 
enough allegations out there that we should go ahead and send 
this letter,'' which shocked me even more than the initial one 
because you would think after a couple days of looking at this, 
he, like we, would have come to the same conclusion that it was 
completely unfounded.
    Vice Chair Cheney. When you learned that he had been 
calling witnesses and conducting investigations on his own, did 
you confront him?
    Mr. Donoghue. Yes.
    Vice Chair Cheney. What was his reaction?
    Mr. Donoghue. He got very defensive. You know, as I said, 
there were a series of conversations through that week. I 
certainly remember very specifically the conversation and the 
meeting on January 2nd. That got even more confrontational.
    But he was defensive. You know, similar to his earlier 
reaction when I said this is nothing less than Justice 
Department meddling in an election, his reaction was, ``I think 
a lot of people have meddled in this election.''
    So he kind-of clung to that, and then spewed out some of 
these theories, some of which we had heard from the President, 
but others which were floating around the internet and media, 
and just kept insisting that the Department needed to act and 
needed to send those letters.
    Vice Chair Cheney. The Committee has also learned that Mr. 
Clark was working with another attorney at the Department named 
Ken Klukowski, who drafted this letter to Georgia with Mr. 
Clark.
    Mr. Klukowski had arrived at the Department on December 
15th with just 36 days left until the inauguration. He was 
specifically assigned to work under Jeff Clark.
    Mr. Klukowski also worked with John Eastman, who we showed 
you at our hearing last week was one of the primary architects 
of President Trump's scheme to overturn the election.
    The Georgia letter that we have been discussing 
specifically talks about some of Dr. Eastman's theories, 
including, ``The purpose of the special session the Department 
recommends would be for the General Assembly to determine 
whether the election failed to make a proper and valid choice 
between the candidates, such that a General Assembly could take 
whatever action is necessary to ensure that one of the slates 
of electors cast on December 14th will be accepted by Congress 
on January 6th.''
    The Committee has also learned that the relationship 
between Dr. Eastman and Mr. Klukowski persisted after Mr. 
Klukowski joined the Justice Department.
    Let's take a look at an email recommending that Mr. 
Klukowski and Dr. Eastman brief Vice President Pence and his 
staff. Other recipients of this email included the chief of 
staff to Congressman Louie Gohmert.
    The email says, ``As stated last week, I believe the Vice 
President and his staff would benefit greatly from a briefing 
by John and Ken. As I also mentioned, we want to make sure we 
don't overexpose Ken given his new position.''
    This email suggests that Mr. Klukowski was simultaneously 
working with Jeffrey Clark to draft the proposed letter to 
Georgia officials to overturn their certified election and 
working with Dr. Eastman to help pressure the Vice President to 
overturn the election.
    I want to thank all of our witnesses for being here today 
and for answering our questions about this letter and other 
issues.
    We asked Mr. Clark some of the same questions that we have 
asked you, and here is how he answered.

    Mr. Wood. Did you discuss this draft letter to Georgia officials 
with the President of the United States?
    Mr. Clark. Fifth and executive privilege. Again, just restated for 
the abundance of caution.
    Mr. Wood. Okay. If you look again at the draft letter, in the first 
paragraph, second sentence says, ``The Department will update you as we 
are able on investigatory progress, but at this time, we have 
identified significant concerns that may have impacted the outcome of 
the election in multiple States, including the State of Georgia.'' 
Isn't that, in fact, contrary to what Attorney General Barr had said on 
December 1, 2020?
    Mr. Clark. Fifth.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Chairman, I reserve.
    Chairman Thompson. Pursuant to the order of the Committee 
of today, the Chair declares the Committee in recess for a 
period of approximately 10 minutes.
    [Accordingly, at 4:08 p.m., the Committee recessed until 
4:20 p.m., when it was called to order by the Chairman.]
    Chairman Thompson. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Chairman, around the time Mr. Clark was pushing for the 
Department to send the Georgia letter, the President and his 
supporters were pressuring the Justice Department to take other 
actions to change the outcome of the 2020 election.
    Mr. Engel, you were the head of the Office of Legal 
Counsel. Can you first off explain your role? What is that?
    Mr. Engel. Sure. One of the Attorney General's most 
important responsibilities is to provide legal advice to the 
President and to the executive branch.
    As a practical matter, given the responsibilities of the 
Attorney General, the Assistant Attorney General for the Office 
of Legal Counsel exercises that job on a day-to-day basis.
    So, in addition, the head of OLC often functions as a 
general counsel essentially to the Attorney General, and so is 
often the chief legal adviser to the AG as well as the White 
House and the executive branch more broadly.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So given that role, can you kind-of describe 
your relationship with the President?
    Mr. Engel. Well, in connection with my role at OLC, over 
the course of my tenure there there were a number of instances 
in which folks at the White House would seek to bring me in to 
provide legal advice to the President, sometimes discussing the 
legal options that could be pursued among various policy--to 
reach various policy objectives, sometimes to advise the 
President that a course of action that they had been discussing 
was not legally available.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So I want to ask you about two things the 
President asked you and the Department to do. The first is 
reflected in this email that we are going to put on the screen.
    The President sent a draft lawsuit to be filed by the 
Department and the Supreme Court. He wanted you, Mr. Rosen, and 
Mr. Cipollone specifically to review it. You and the Department 
opposed filing it.
    We see on the screen here the talking points that you 
actually drafted on that. So you stated that, ``There is no 
legal basis to bring this lawsuit. Anyone who thinks otherwise 
simply doesn't know the law, much less the Supreme Court.''
    Why was this the Department's position?
    Mr. Engel. Well, I mean, I think the memo sort-of speaks to 
this.
    But essentially this was a draft lawsuit that apparently 
was prepared by people outside the Department. It would be 
styled as brought by the United States and by the Acting 
Solicitor General as an original jurisdiction matter in the 
Supreme Court.
    It was a meritless lawsuit that was not something that the 
Department could or would bring. You know, somebody obviously 
prepared it, handed it to the President, and he forwarded it on 
for our review.
    But that memo explains why the Department of Justice, as 
Mr. Donoghue said earlier, doesn't have any standing to bring 
such a lawsuit. The lawsuit would have been untimely. The 
States had chosen their electors. The electors had been 
certified. They had cast their votes. They had been sent to 
Washington, DC.
    Neither Georgia nor any of the other States on December 
28th, or whenever this was, was in a position to change those 
votes. Essentially, the election had happened. The only thing 
that hadn't happened was the formal counting of the votes.
    So, obviously, the person who drafted this lawsuit didn't 
really understand, in my view, you know, the law and/or how the 
Supreme Court works or the Department of Justice.
    So it was just not something we were going to do. The 
Acting Attorney General asked me to prepare a memo with talking 
points so that he could explain our reasons when he spoke with 
the President about this.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So would you say it was an unusual request?
    Mr. Engel. Certainly. The request that the Department file 
a lawsuit from--drafted by outside lawyers--was certainly an 
unusual request.
    Mr. Kinzinger. There was another issue you were asked to 
look into. In mid-December, did the White House ask Attorney 
General Barr to consider whether a special counsel could be 
appointed to look into election fraud issues?
    Mr. Engel. Yes. I mean, I think the President was probably 
vocal at the time that he believed that a special counsel was 
something that should be considered to look into election 
fraud. There is a specific, you know, request where the 
Attorney General sought my legal advice in the middle of 
December.
    Mr. Kinzinger. What was your conclusion? What conclusion 
did you reach?
    Mr. Engel. So this request was whether the Attorney General 
could appoint as a special counsel a State attorney general to 
conduct an investigation.
    I mean, as a legal matter, under Federal law the Attorney 
General actually has fairly wide discretion to delegate 
prosecutorial authority, including to State prosecutors, which 
happens to assist the Department, you know, and not uncommonly. 
Obviously, a State attorney general exercising prosecutorial 
authority on behalf of the Department of Justice would be 
fairly uncommon.
    When we looked at the issue, what we saw is actually that 
the State law--the State was Louisiana--that the State law 
precluded the Louisiana attorney general from accepting any 
position, any official position on behalf of the U.S. 
Government. So that answered the question, that it was not 
legally available.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So during your time at the Department, was 
there ever any basis to appoint a special counsel to 
investigate President Trump's election fraud claims?
    Mr. Engel. Well, neither Attorney General Barr nor Acting 
Attorney General Rosen did appoint a special counsel. You would 
appoint a special counsel when the Department--when there is a 
basis for the investigation and the Department essentially has 
a conflict of interest.
    It is important to get someone who is independent outside 
of the Department to handle such an investigation. Neither 
Attorney General Barr nor Acting Attorney General Rosen ever 
believed that that was appropriate or necessary in this case.
    Mr. Kinzinger. In fact, Attorney General Barr had already 
told the President that there was no need for the special 
counsel. He actually stated that publicly, and we will see that 
here in a video from December 21st.

    Attorney General Barr. To the extent that there's an investigation, 
I think that it's being handled responsibly and professionally 
currently within the--the Department, and to this point, I have not 
seen a reason to appoint a Special Counsel, and I have no plan to do so 
before I leave.

    Mr. Kinzinger. So remember that December 21st was the same 
day President Trump met with Republican Members at the White 
House to strategize about how to overturn the election while 
his Attorney General is out telling the public, again, that 
there was no widespread evidence of election fraud. Yet, 2 days 
later, we have President Trump tweeting, again publicly 
pressuring the Department to appoint a special counsel.
    He said, ``After seeing the massive voter fraud in the 2020 
Presidential election, I disagree with anyone that thinks a 
strong, fast, and fair special counsel is not needed 
immediately. This was the most corrupt election in the history 
of our country, and it must be closely examined.''
    The Select Committee's investigation revealed that 
President Trump went as far as to promise the job of special 
counsel to now discredited former Trump campaign lawyer Sidney 
Powell at a late-night meeting December 18th.

    Ms. Powell. I know on--on Friday he had asked me to be Special 
Counsel to address the election issues and to collect evidence, and he 
was extremely frustrated with the lack of, I would call it, law 
enforcement by any of the government agencies that are supposed to act 
to protect the rule of law in our republic.

    Mr. Kinzinger. So let's think here. What would a special 
counsel do? With only days to go until election certification, 
it wasn't to investigate anything. An investigation led by a 
special counsel would just create an illusion of legitimacy and 
provide fake cover for those who would want to object, 
including those who stormed the Capitol on January 6th. All of 
President Trump's plans for the Justice Department were being 
rebuffed by Mr. Rosen, Mr. Donoghue, Mr. Engel, and others.
    The President became desperate entering into the New Year 
with January 6th fast approaching. President Trump rushed back 
early from Mar-a-Lago on December 31st and called an emergency 
meeting with the Department's leadership.
    Here is Mr. Donoghue describing the last-minute meeting 
held at the White House on New Year's Eve.

    Mr. Donoghue. The President was a little more agitated than he had 
been on the meeting--in the meeting on the 15th. He discussed a variety 
of election matters. He did say, ``This sounds like the kind of thing 
that would warrant appointment of a Special Counsel.'' There was a 
point at which the President said something about, ``Why don't you guys 
seize machines?''

    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Rosen, the President asked you to seize 
voting machines from State governments. What was your response 
to that request?
    Mr. Rosen. That we had seen nothing improper with regard to 
the voting machines. I told him that the real experts at that 
had been at DHS, and they had briefed us that they had looked 
at it and that there was nothing wrong with the voting 
machines. So that was not something that was appropriate to do.
    Mr. Kinzinger. There would be no factual basis to seize 
machines?
    Mr. Rosen. I don't think there was legal authority either.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Donoghue, can you explain what the 
President did after he was told that the Justice Department 
would not seize voting machines?
    Mr. Donoghue. The President was very agitated by the Acting 
Attorney General's response. To the extent that machines and 
the technology was being discussed, the Acting Attorney General 
said that the DHS, Department of Homeland Security, has 
expertise in machines and certifying them and making sure that 
the States were operating them properly.
    Since DHS had been mentioned, the President yelled out to 
his secretary, ``Get Ken Cuccinelli on the phone.'' She did in 
very short order.
    Mr. Cuccinelli was on the phone. He was No. 2 at DHS at the 
time. I was on the speaker phone. The President essentially 
said, ``Ken, I am sitting here with the Acting Attorney 
General. He just told me it is your job to seize machines, and 
you are not doing your job.'' Mr. Cuccinelli responded.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Rosen, did you ever tell the President 
that the Department of Homeland Security could seize voting 
machines?
    Mr. Rosen. No, certainly not.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Donoghue, during this meeting, did the 
President tell you that he would remove you and Mr. Rosen 
because you weren't declaring there was election fraud?
    Mr. Donoghue. Toward the end of the meeting the President, 
again, was getting very agitated, and he said, ``People tell me 
I should just get rid of both of you, I should just remove you 
and make a change in the leadership, put Jeff Clark in, maybe 
something will finally get done.''
    I responded as I think I had earlier in the December 27th 
call: ``Mr. President, you should have the leadership that you 
want. But understand the United States Justice Department 
functions on facts, evidence, and law, and those are not going 
to change. So you can have whatever leadership you want, but 
the Department's position is not going to change.''
    Mr. Kinzinger. The President's White House Counsel, Pat 
Cipollone, was also present. Do you remember what his position 
was?
    Mr. Donoghue. Pat was very supportive. Pat Cipollone 
throughout these conversations was extremely supportive of the 
Justice Department. He was consistent. I think he had an 
impossible job at that point, but he did it well. He always 
sided with the Justice Department in these discussions.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So let's pause for a second. It is New 
Year's Eve. President Trump is talking about seizing voting 
machines and making the same demands that had already been shot 
down by former Attorney General Barr on at least three 
occasions and by Mr. Rosen and Mr. Donoghue on multiple other 
occasions. Claim after claim knocked down, but the President 
didn't care.
    The next day, Chief of Staff Mark Meadows sent a flurry of 
emails to you, Mr. Rosen, asking that the Department look into 
a new set of allegations. We are going to put those emails here 
on the screen.
    Here we see three requests made on January 1st. One email 
is a request from Mr. Meadows to you, Mr. Rosen, to send Jeff 
Clark to Fulton County.
    What did you do with this request?
    Mr. Rosen. Well, really nothing. Certainly didn't send Mr. 
Clark to Fulton County. But that email was the first 
corroboration I had seen of--Mr. Clark had told me at that 
point that the President was considering making the change by 
Monday, January 4th.
    So Mr. Meadows' email was something of a corroboration that 
there were discussions going on that I had been--not been 
informed about by Mr. Clark or anybody else.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Interesting.
    The second request that you have is to have the Department 
of Justice lawyers investigate allegations of fraud related to 
New Mexico.
    Mr. Rosen, did you have concern about these emails?
    Mr. Rosen. Yes. Really two concerns about that one. One was 
that it was coming from a campaign or political party, and it 
was really not our role to function as, you know, an arm of any 
campaign for any party or any campaign. That wasn't our role. 
That is part of why I had been unwilling to meet with Mr. 
Giuliani or any of the campaign people before.
    The other part was it was another one of these ones where 
lots of work had already been done and I thought it was a 
rehash of things that had been debunked previously.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So the final email here included a 
completely baseless conspiracy theory that an Italian defense 
contractor uploaded software to a satellite that switched votes 
from Trump to Biden.
    The Select Committee investigation found that this wild, 
baseless conspiracy theory made it from the recesses of the 
internet to the highest echelons of our Government. On December 
31st, Mr. Meadows received this internet conspiracy theory from 
Representative Perry.
    On the screen now is the text that Representative Perry 
sent to Mr. Meadows, copying a YouTube link with the message, 
``Why can't we just work with the Italian government?''
    The next day, the President's chief of staff sent the 
YouTube link to Mr. Rosen, who forwarded it to Mr. Donoghue.
    Mr. Donoghue, did you watch this video?
    Mr. Donoghue. I did, Congressman.
    Mr. Kinzinger. How long was the video?
    Mr. Donoghue. Approximately 20 minutes.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Let's just take a look at an excerpt of that 
video, if we may.

    Mr. Johnson. What's being said out of Rome, out of Italy is that 
this was done in the U.S. Embassy, that there was a certain State 
Department guy whose name I don't know yet. I guess this is probably 
going to come out in Italy at some point. And he was the mastermind--
not the mastermind, but the--but anyway, the guy running the operation 
of changing the votes. And that he was doing this in conjunction with 
some support from MI6, the CIA, and this Leonardo group.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Donoghue, what was your reaction when 
you watched that entire 20-minute video?
    Mr. Donoghue. I emailed the Acting Attorney General and I 
said, ``pure insanity,'' which was my impression of the video, 
which was patently absurd.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Rosen, you were asked by Mr. Meadows to 
meet with Mr. Johnson, who is the person in that video. What 
was your reaction to that request?
    Mr. Rosen. So, ordinarily, I would get an email like this 
and there was no phone call. It would just come over the 
transom.
    But this one, he called me, Mr. Meadows, and asked me to 
meet with Mr. Johnson. I told him this whole thing about Italy 
had been debunked and that should be the end of that, and I 
certainly wasn't going to meet with this person.
    He initially seemed to accept that. He said, ``You know, 
well, why won't you meet with him?''
    I said, ``Because if he has real evidence, which this video 
doesn't show, he can walk into an FBI field office anywhere in 
the United States. There are 55 of them.''
    He said, ``Okay.''
    But then he called me back a few minutes later and 
complained and said, ``I didn't tell you, but this fellow, 
Johnson, is working with Rudy Giuliani, and Mr. Giuliani is 
really offended that you think they have to go to an FBI field 
office. That is insulting. So couldn't you just have the FBI or 
you meet with these guys?''
    By then, I was somewhat agitated, and told him that there 
was no way on Earth that I was going to do that. I wasn't going 
to meet with Mr. Johnson. I certainly wasn't going to meet with 
Mr. Giuliani. I had made that clear repeatedly. So that is the 
end of that, you know, don't raise this with me again.
    So because Mr. Donoghue and I had been exchanging our views 
about this--I think it was, yes, 7:13 on a Friday night of New 
Year's Day--had run out of patience. I sent the email that you 
are talking about where I made pretty clear that I had no 
interest in doing anything further with this.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Just to button this up, Mr. Donoghue. Did 
you receive a follow-up call from a Department of Defense 
official about this conspiracy?
    Mr. Donoghue. I did. I believe it was that same day.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Can you give details on that at all?
    Mr. Donoghue. I received a telephone call from Kash Patel, 
who I know was a DOD official at that time, worked for, I 
believe, Acting Secretary of Defense Miller, and he didn't know 
much about it. He basically said, ``Do you know anything about 
this Italy thing and what this is all about?''
    I informed him that the chief of staff had raised the issue 
with us in his office on December 29th, that we had looked into 
it a little bit. We had run the name that was provided to us by 
the chief of staff.
    I learned that that individual was in custody in Italy. He 
had been arrested for a cyber offense of some sort in Italy. 
The allegation was that he had been exfiltrating data from his 
company. He was either an employee or a contractor of that 
company, and he was in custody. That the whole thing was very, 
very murky at best, and the video was absurd. But that we, the 
Department, were not going to have anything do with it and DOD 
should make up its own mind as to what they are going to do. 
But I made it clear to him that I didn't think it was anything 
worth pursuing.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So you called the video absurd, and despite 
the absurdity of that conspiracy theory we learned that Mr. 
Meadows discussed it frequently in the White House.
    Mr. Meadows didn't let the matter go. The request went from 
the Department of Justice to the Secretary of Defense, 
Christopher Miller. As you will hear, Secretary Miller actually 
reached out to a high-ranking official based in Italy to follow 
up on this claim.

    Acting Secretary of Defense Miller. The ask for him was, ``Can you 
call out the Defense Attache Rome and find out what the heck's going on 
because I'm getting all these weird, crazy reports and probably the guy 
on the ground knows more than anything?''

    Mr. Kinzinger. The Select Committee confirmed that a call 
was actually placed by Secretary Miller to the attache in Italy 
to investigate the claim that Italian satellites were switching 
votes from Trump to Biden.
    This is one of the best examples of the lengths to which 
President Trump would go to stay in power--scouring the 
internet to support his conspiracy theories shown here, as he 
told Mr. Donoghue in that December 27th call, ``You guys may 
not be following the internet the way I do.''
    President Trump's efforts to this point had failed. 
Stonewalled by Mr. Rosen and Mr. Donoghue, President Trump had 
only one option: He needed to make Clark Acting Attorney 
General.
    Mr. Rosen, during a January 2nd meeting with Mr. Clark, did 
you confront him again about his contact with the President? If 
so, can you describe that?
    Mr. Rosen. So at this point Mr. Clark had told us that the 
President had asked him to consider whether he would be willing 
to replace me, supposedly on a time table by Monday the 4th.
    So I had told Mr. Clark I thought he was making a colossal 
error in judgment, but I also hoped to persuade him to be more 
rational and to understood what we had understood, that there 
is not a factual basis for the fraud assertions that are being 
made.
    So at this meeting, Mr. Donoghue and I met with Mr. Clark, 
and I guess my hopes were disappointed in that Mr. Clark 
continued to express a view that he thought there was fraud, 
even though he had not been a participant in the Department's 
review of that, and that he was dissatisfied that we knew what 
we were doing.
    But he had acknowledged that he had had further--I don't 
know if it was a meeting or phone calls or what--but further 
discussion with the President despite having a week earlier 
said that he, (A), wouldn't do that, and if did, if he got an 
invitation to do that, he would let Rich Donoghue or me know.
    So we had--it was a contentious meeting where we were 
chastising him that he was insubordinate, he was out of line, 
he had not honored his own representations of what he would do. 
He raised, again, that he thought that letter should go out and 
we were not receptive to that.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Did he tell you in that that the President 
had offered him the job of Acting Attorney General?
    Mr. Rosen. That was a day later. On the 2nd, he said that 
the President had asked him to let him know if he would be 
willing to take it.
    Subsequently, he told me that--on Sunday, the 3rd--he told 
me that the time line had moved up and that the President had 
offered him the job and that he was accepting it.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Let me ask you about that.
    What was your reaction to that?
    Mr. Rosen. Well, on the one hand, I wasn't going to accept 
being fired by my subordinate, so I wanted to talk to the 
President directly.
    With regard to--the reason for that is I wanted to try to 
convince the President not to go down the wrong path that Mr. 
Clark seemed to be advocating.
    It wasn't about me. There are only 17 days left in the 
administration at that point. I would have been perfectly 
content to have either of the gentleman on my left or right 
replace me if anybody wanted to do that.
    But I did not want for Department of Justice to be put in a 
posture where it would be doing things that were not consistent 
with the truth, were not consistent with its own appropriate 
role, or were not consistent with the Constitution.
    So I did four things as soon as Mr. Clark left my office on 
that Sunday, the 3rd.
    No. 1, I called Mark Meadows and said I need to see the 
President right away. He was agreeable and set up a meeting for 
6:15 that Sunday, so about 2 hours away.
    No. 2, I called Pat Cipollone, the White House Counsel, 
told him what was going on, and he said he would go into the 
White House to make sure he was at the meeting, and he would be 
supporting the Justice Department's position as he had been 
doing consistently.
    No. 3, I called Steve Engel, who was--I was at the 
Department. It was a Sunday, but there had been some reasons I 
needed to be there. Mr. Engel I called at home and asked him if 
he would come in and go to the meeting, which he did and proved 
to be quite helpful.
    Then, No. 4, I asked Rich Donoghue and Pat Hovakimian, who 
had previously been my chief of staff, to get the Department's 
senior leadership on a call and let them know what was going 
on, which they did.
    Then Eric Herschmann called me to tell me that he was going 
to go to the meeting and that he would be supporting the 
Department of Justice position as well.
    So I knew that the meeting was on course and that I would 
have a number of people supportive of the Department of 
Justice's approach and not supportive of Mr. Clark's approach.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Did Mr. Clark ask you to continue to stay at 
the Department?
    Mr. Rosen. At that Sunday meeting when he told me that he 
would be replacing me, he said he had asked to see me alone, 
because usually he had met with me and Mr. Donoghue, because he 
thought it would be appropriate in light of what was happening 
to at least offer me that I could stay on as his deputy.
    I thought that was preposterous, told him that was 
nonsensical, and that there is no universe where I was going to 
do that, to stay on and support someone else doing things that 
were not consistent with what I thought should be done.
    So I didn't accept that offer, if I can put it that way.
    Mr. Kinzinger. During that meeting, did Mr. Clark ask you 
to sign the Georgia letter?
    Mr. Rosen. That was on the Saturday meeting, January 2nd, 
that Mr. Donoghue and I had with him. He again raised with both 
of us that he wanted us both to sign that letter actually.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So in that meeting, did Mr. Clark say he 
would turn down the President's offer if you reversed your 
position and signed the letter?
    Mr. Rosen. Yes.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Did Mr. Clark--so you still refused to sign 
and send that letter, I take it?
    Mr. Rosen. That is right. I think Mr. Donoghue and I were 
both very consistent that there was no way we were going to 
sign that letter. It didn't matter what Mr. Clark's proposition 
was in terms of his own activities, we were not going to sign 
that letter as long as we were in charge of the Justice 
Department.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you for that, by the way.
    Mr. Donoghue, were you expecting to have to attend a 
meeting at the White House on Sunday, January 3rd?
    Mr. Donoghue. No. As the Acting AG indicated, we had a 
meeting that afternoon that related to preparations for January 
6th.
    So I was at the Department, but I had no expectation of 
leaving the Department. It was a Sunday afternoon, and I was 
there in civilian clothes, as we both were, and expected to 
have that meeting, do some other work.
    But I had no expectation of going to the White House that 
day.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So let's ask, so prior to that Oval Office 
meeting, did you set up a conference call with senior 
leadership at the Department? If so, tell us about that call.
    Mr. Donoghue. Yes. So, obviously, it was a bit of a 
scramble that afternoon to prepare for the Oval Office meeting. 
We had discussed on several occasions, the Acting Attorney 
General and I, whether we should expand the circle of people 
who knew what was going on.
    It was very important that Steve Engel know, and that is 
why I reached out to Steve on December 28th, because if Mr. 
Rosen were removed from the seat and the President did not 
immediately appoint someone else to serve as Attorney General, 
just by function of the Department's change of succession Mr. 
Engel would be in the seat. We wanted to make sure he knew what 
was going on should that occur.
    So the three of us knew. We also brought Pat Hovakimian in. 
So the four of us knew. But no one else, aside from Jeff Clark, 
of course, knew what was going on until late that Sunday 
afternoon. We chose to keep a close hold because we didn't want 
to create concern or panic in the Justice Department 
leadership.
    But at this point, I asked the Acting AG, ``What else can I 
do to help prepare for this meeting at the Oval Office?''
    He said, ``You and Pat should get the AAGs on the phone and 
it is time to let them know what is going on. Let's find out 
what they may do if there is a change in leadership, because 
that will help inform the conversation at the Oval Office.''
    Pat Hovakimian subsequently set up that meeting. We got 
most, not all, but most of the AAGs on the phone. We very 
quickly explained to them what the situation was.
    I told them, ``I don't need an answer from you right now. I 
don't need an answer on this phone call. But if you have an 
answer, I need it in the next few minutes. So call me, email, 
text me, whatever it is, if you know what you would do if Jeff 
Clark is put in charge of the Department.''
    Immediately Eric Dreiband, who was the AAG of the Civil 
Rights Division, said, ``I don't need to think about it. There 
is no way I am staying.''
    Then the other AAGs began to chime in in turn and all 
essentially said they would leave. They would resign en masse 
if the President made that change in the Department leadership.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Incredible.
    I would like to look at the Assistant Attorney Generals on 
the screen, if we can pull that up, have their pictures.
    Did every Assistant Attorney General that you spoke to, as 
you said, agree to resign?
    Mr. Donoghue. Makan Delrahim was not on the call only 
because we had some difficulty reaching him.
    But, yes, the other people on the screen were on the call 
and all without hesitation said that they would resign.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So as part of the Select Committee's 
investigation we found that while Mr. Rosen, Mr. Donoghue, and 
Mr. Engel were preparing for their meeting at the White House, 
Jeff Clark and the President were in constant communication, 
beginning at 
7 a.m.
    White House call logs obtained by the Committee show that 
by 4:19 p.m. on January 3rd, the White House had already begun 
referring to Mr. Clark as the Acting Attorney General. As far 
as the White House was concerned, Mr. Clark was already at the 
top of the Justice Department.
    Two hours later, DOJ leadership arrived at the White House. 
The Select Committee interviewed every person who was inside 
the room during this Sunday evening Oval Office meeting.
    Mr. Cipollone told the Committee that he was ``unmistakably 
angry'' during the meeting and that he, along with Eric 
Herschmann and Mr. Donoghue ``forcefully challenged'' Mr. Clark 
to produce evidence of his election fraud theories.
    Mr. Rosen, can you describe how that meeting started?
    Mr. Rosen. Yes.
    So after some preliminaries--so we--Mr. Meadows had ushered 
us all in, and then he left. So Mr. Cipollone did some 
introductions.
    So after some preliminaries, the President turned to me, 
and he said, ``Well, one thing we know is you, Rosen, you 
aren't going to do anything. You don't even agree with the 
claims of election fraud. This other guy at least might do 
something.''
    Then I said, ``Well, Mr. President, you are right that I am 
not going to allow the Justice Department to do anything to try 
to overturn the election. That is true. But the reason for that 
is because that is what is consistent with the facts and the 
law and that is what is required under the Constitution. So 
that is the right answer and a good thing for the country. 
Therefore, I submit it is the right thing for you, Mr. 
President.''
    That kicked off another 2 hours of discussion in which 
everyone in the room was in one way or another making different 
points, but supportive of my approach for the Justice 
Department and critical of Mr. Clark.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So at some point, Mr. Donoghue comes in the 
room. Can you explain what led to him coming in the room?
    Mr. Rosen. Oh, I forgot about that.
    So initially, in part I think because he was underdressed, 
and we had not arranged--we had not yet told the President that 
he was going to come in--the White House had a list of who 
would be there that did include Mr. Engel, and the White House 
Counsel, and the Deputy White House Counsel, Mr. Herschmann.
    We went in, and then we told the President, maybe 10 
minutes into the meeting or something, I forget how far in, Mr. 
Donoghue was outside. He said, ``Well, bring him in.'' Then Mr. 
Donoghue came in and joined the meeting.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So, Mr. Donoghue, you enter that room. Can 
you set the scene for us and describe the tone you walked into?
    Mr. Donoghue. Yes. But if I could just back up one moment, 
Congressman, because you put the pictures up on the screen of 
the AAGs.
    I just want to make clear, one of the AAGs who was not on 
the screen was John Demers. John was the National Security 
Division AAG.
    John was on the call. But I prefaced the call by saying, 
``John, we need you to stay in place. National security is too 
important. We need to minimize the disruption. Whether you 
resign is entirely up to you. Obviously, we will respect your 
decision either way. But I am asking you, please stay in 
place.''
    He did. So I don't want to leave the impression that he was 
not willing to resign, because I think he was.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Great. Thank you for that.
    Mr. Donoghue. So with regard to entering the Oval Office, I 
was sitting in the hallway. An administrative assistant passed 
by.
    She asked me, ``Are you supposed to be in this meeting with 
the President?''
    I said, ``No. I am simply here in case questions come up 
that other people don't have the answer to.''
    She walked away and then came back probably 30 seconds 
later and said, ``The President wants you in the meeting.''
    I proceeded into the Oval Office. I took probably two or 
three steps in and I stopped, because I was, as the AG said, 
not exactly properly attired. I was wearing jeans and muddy 
boots and an Army T-shirt, and I never would arrive in the Oval 
Office this way.
    I said, ``Mr. President, I apologize. I am sorry. I didn't 
know I was going to be here.''
    He said, ``No, no, no. Just come in, come in, come in.''
    So I went in. I attempted to take a seat on one of the 
couches that are behind the chairs arrayed in front of the 
President's desk. He said, ``Oh, no, no, no. You are going to 
be up here.''
    Everyone kind-of laughed. They moved the chairs a little 
bit. Someone from the White House Counsel's Office picked up a 
spare chair and put it directly in front of the President and I 
took that seat.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Was there discussion about Mr. Clark? Can 
you kind-of enlighten some of what that discussion was?
    Mr. Donoghue. Yes. So the conversation at this point had 
moved beyond the specific allegations, whether it was State 
Farm Arena or Antrim County or Pennsylvania or whatever. We had 
discussed those repeatedly, and that was backdrop to the 
conversation.
    But the conversation at this point was really about whether 
the President should remove Jeff Rosen and replace him with 
Jeff Clark. Everyone in the room, I think, understood that that 
meant that letter would go out.
    So that was the focus. It was about a 2\1/2\-hour meeting 
after I entered. So there were discussions about the pros and 
cons of doing that.
    Early on, the President said, ``What do I have to lose?''
    It was actually a good opening, because I said, ``Mr. 
President, you have a great deal to lose.''
    I began to explain to him what he had to lose and what the 
country had to lose and what the Department had to lose, and 
this was not in anyone's best interest.
    That conversation went on for some time. Everyone 
essentially chimed in with their own thoughts, all of which 
were consistent about how damaging this would be to the 
country, to the Department, to the administration, to him 
personally.
    At some point the conversation turned to whether Jeff Clark 
was even qualified, competent to run the Justice Department, 
which in my mind he clearly was not.
    It was a heated conversation. I thought it was useful to 
point out to the President that Jeff Clark simply didn't have 
the skills, the ability, and the experience to run the 
Department.
    So I said, ``Mr. President, you are talking about putting a 
man in that seat who has never tried a criminal case, who has 
never conducted a criminal investigation. He is telling you 
that he is going to take charge of the Department, 115,000 
employees, including the entire FBI, and turn the place on a 
dime and conduct nationwide criminal investigations that will 
produce results in a matter of days. It is impossible. It is 
absurd. It is not going to happen. It is going to fail.''
    ``He has never been in front of a trial jury, a grand jury. 
He has never even been to Chris Wray's office.''
    I said at one point, ``If you walk into Chris Wray's 
office, No. 1, would you know how to get there? No. 2, if you 
got there, would he even know who you are? Do you really think 
that the FBI is going to suddenly start following your 
orders?''
    ``It is not going to happen. He is not competent.''
    That is the point at which Mr. Clark tried to defend 
himself by saying, ``Well, I have been involved in very 
significant civil and environmental litigation. I have argued 
many appeals in appellate courts and things of that nature.''
    Then I pointed out that, yes, he was an environmental 
lawyer, and I didn't think that was appropriate background to 
be running the United States Justice Department.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Did anybody in there support Mr. Clark?
    Mr. Donoghue. No one.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Rosen, it was you he was going to 
replace. So what was your view about the President's plan to 
appoint Mr. Clark?
    Mr. Rosen. Well, as I alluded to earlier, the issue really 
wasn't about me. It was--it would have been fine, as I said, to 
have had Rich Donoghue replace me. I would have said, ``Great, 
I get 17 days vacation,'' or something.
    But the issue was the use of the Justice Department. It is 
just so important that the Justice Department adhere to the 
facts and the law.
    That is what it is there to do, and that is what our 
constitutional role was. So if the Justice Department gets out 
of the role that it is supposed to play, that is really bad for 
our country, and I don't know of a simpler way to say that. 
When you damage our fundamental institutions, it is not easy to 
repair them.
    So I thought this was a really important issue--to try to 
make sure that the Justice Department was able to stay on the 
right course.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Donoghue, did you eventually tell the 
President that mass resignations would occur if he installed 
Mr. Clark and what the consequences would be?
    Mr. Donoghue. Yes. So this was in line with the President 
saying, ``What do I have to lose?'' Along those lines, he said, 
``So suppose I do this, suppose I replace him, Jeff Rosen, with 
him, Jeff Clark. What would you do?''
    I said, ``Mr. President, I would resign immediately. I am 
not working 1 minute for this guy,'' who I had just declared 
was completely incompetent.
    So the President immediately turned to Mr. Engel, and he 
said, ``Steve you wouldn't resign, would you?''
    He said, ``Absolutely I would, Mr. President. You leave me 
no choice.''
    Then I said, ``And we are not the only ones. No one cares 
if we resign. If Steve and I go, that is fine. It doesn't 
matter. But I am telling you what is going to happen. You are 
going to lose your entire Department leadership. Every single 
AAG will walk out on you. Your entire Department leadership 
will walk out within hours. I don't know what happens after 
that. I don't know what the United States attorneys are going 
to do.''
    We have U.S. attorneys in districts across the country, and 
my guess would be that many of them would have resigned, and 
that would then have led to resignations across the Department 
in Washington.
    I said, ``Mr. President, within 24, 48, 72 hours, you could 
have hundreds and hundreds of resignations of the leadership of 
your entire Justice Department because of your actions. What is 
that going to say about you?''
    Mr. Kinzinger. Wow.
    Mr. Engel, what was--can you describe what your reaction 
was to that?
    Mr. Engel. Yes. No, I think when the President--my 
recollection is that when the President turned to me and said, 
``Steve, you wouldn't leave, would you?'' I said, ``Mr. 
President, I have been with you through four Attorneys General, 
including two Acting Attorneys General, but I couldn't be part 
of this.''
    Then the other thing that I said was that, you know, 
``Look, all anyone is going to sort-of think about when they 
see this--no one is going to read this letter. All anyone is 
going to think is that you went through two Attorneys General 
in 2 weeks until you found the environmental guy to sign this 
thing.''
    ``So the story is not going to be that the Department of 
Justice has found massive corruption that would have changed 
the results of the election. It is going to be the disaster of 
Jeff Clark.''
    I think at that point Pat Cipollone said, ``Yes, this is a 
murder-suicide pact, this letter.''
    Mr. Donoghue. I would note too, Congressman, that it was in 
this part of the conversation where Steve pointed out that Jeff 
Clark would be left leading a graveyard. That comment clearly 
had an impact on the President. The leadership will be gone. 
Jeff Clark will be left leading a graveyard.
    Mr. Engel. Again, the premise that--which Mr. Donoghue had 
said--but that Mr. Clark could come in and take over the 
Department of Justice and do something different was just an 
absurd premise. All he was doing, Mr. Clark, by putting himself 
forward, was blowing himself up. If the President were to have 
gone that course, you know, it would have been a grievous error 
for the President as well.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Cipollone, the White House Counsel, told 
the Committee that Mr. Engel's response had a noticeable impact 
on the President, that this was a turning point in the 
conversation.
    Mr. Donoghue, toward the end of this meeting, did the 
President ask you what was going to happen to Mr. Clark?
    Mr. Donoghue. He did. When we finally got to, I would say, 
the last 15 minutes of the meeting, the President's decision 
was apparent. He announced it. Jeff Clark tried to scrape his 
way back and asked the President to reconsider. The President 
doubled down and said, ``No, I have made my decision. That is 
it. We are not going to do it.''
    Then he turned to me and said, ``So what happens to him 
now?'' meaning Mr. Clark, and he understood that Mr. Clark 
reported to me.
    I didn't initially understand the question. I said, ``Mr. 
President?''
    He said, ``Are you going to fire him?''
    I said, ``I don't have the authority to fire him. He is a 
Senate-confirmed Assistant Attorney General.''
    He said, ``Well who has the authority to fire him?''
    I said, ``Only you do, sir.''
    He said, ``Well, I am not going to fire him.''
    I said, ``All right. Well, then, we should all go back to 
work.''
    Mr. Kinzinger. Did you get a call from the President later 
that night?
    Mr. Donoghue. I did, I don't know, probably 90 minutes 
later or something like that.
    Mr. Kinzinger. What was that about?
    Mr. Donoghue. The President at this point--we left the 
White House, reconvened at the Department. I left the 
Department. I was back in my apartment. My cell phone rang, it 
was the President, and he had information about a truck 
supposedly full of shredded ballots in Georgia that was in the 
custody of an ICE agent whose name he had.
    I told him that ICE was part of Department of Homeland 
Security. I hadn't heard about this. If Department of Homeland 
Security needed our assistance, we, of course, would provide 
it. But it was really up to DHS to make a call if their agent 
was involved.
    He said, ``Fine, I understand. Can you just make sure that 
Ken,'' meaning Ken Cuccinelli, ``knows about this?''
    I said fine, I would pass that along to him. I eventually 
contacted Ken Cuccinelli later that evening, and I said, ``This 
is what the President told me. If you guys have anything you 
think should be brought to our attention, let me know.''
    He said, ``Thank you.'' That was it.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Cipollone left the meeting convinced the 
President would not appoint Mr. Clark, but he didn't think the 
President had actually accepted the truth about the election. 
Sure enough, all the same debunked theories appeared in his 
speech at the Ellipse 3 days later.

    President Trump. In the State of Arizona, over 36,000 ballots were 
illegally cast by non-citizens, 11,600 more ballots than votes were 
counted, more than there were actual voters. You see that? In 
Wisconsin, corrupt Democrat-run cities deployed more than 500 illegal, 
unmanned, unsecured drop boxes, which collected a minimum of 91,000 
unlawful votes.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Donoghue, Mr. Rosen, Mr. Engel, and 
others stopped President Trump's efforts at least temporarily. 
Yet the message President Trump and his Republican allies 
pushed throughout December made its way to his supporters 
anyway. They kept up the pressure campaign on the way to 
storming the Capitol on January 6th.
    Mr. Rosen, were you at the Department of Justice on January 
6th?
    Mr. Rosen. Yes, I was there all day.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Once the Capitol was under attack, I 
understand that you communicated with fellow Cabinet members 
and Capitol Hill leadership. Can you tell us who you spoke to?
    Mr. Rosen. Yes. I was basically on the phone virtually 
nonstop all day, some calls with our own DOJ folks, some with 
Cabinet counterparts at DHS and Defense and Interior, some with 
senior White House officials and with a number of congressional 
leaders.
    I received calls from Speaker Pelosi, from Leader McCarthy, 
from Leader Schumer. I believe Leader McConnell's chief of 
staff called; a number of other Members of Congress as well.
    You know, the basic thrust of the calls with the Members of 
Congress was, ``There is a dire situation here, and can you 
help?'' I reported to them that we were on a very urgent basis 
sending help from the Department.
    We wound up sending over 500 agents and officers from FBI, 
ATF, and the U.S. Marshals to assist with restoring order at 
the Capitol.
    So had a number of calls. As I say, it was more or less 
nonstop all afternoon.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Did you speak to the Vice President that 
day?
    Mr. Rosen. Yes. Twice. The----
    Mr. Kinzinger. No. Please, go ahead.
    Mr. Rosen. Well, I was going to say the first call was a 
one-on-one discussion, somewhat akin to the congressional 
leadership calls, updating him on what we were doing to assist.
    The second call was a conference call around 7 o'clock with 
the Vice President, congressional leaders, senior White House 
staff, some other Cabinet officials, to address that order 
appeared to be close to being restored or restored, but 
security is still being determined, and the question being what 
time could the Congress reassemble. The answer was 8 o'clock. 
Thankfully Congress did reassemble and complete its 
constitutional duty.
    There was one highlight of that second call with the Vice 
President, which is Mr. Donoghue had gone to the Rotunda of the 
Capitol to be able to give a first-hand account and was able to 
tell the folks on the call, including the Vice President, that 
we thought 8 o'clock would work.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Did you speak to the President on January 
6th?
    Mr. Rosen. No. I spoke to a number of senior White House 
officials, but not the President.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Donoghue, on January 6th, we know from 
Mr. Rosen that you helped in the effort to reconvene the joint 
session. Is that correct?
    Mr. Donoghue. Yes, sir.
    Mr. Kinzinger. We see here in a video that we are going to 
play now you arriving with your security detail to help secure 
the Capitol.
    Mr. Donoghue, 30 minutes after you arrived to the Capitol, 
did you lead a briefing for the Vice President?
    Mr. Donoghue. I am not sure exactly what the time frame 
was, but I did participate in the call and participate in 
briefing the Vice President as well as the congressional 
leadership that night, yes.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Where did you conduct that call at?
    Mr. Donoghue. I was in an office. I am not entirely sure 
where it was. My detail found it, because the acoustics in the 
rotunda were such that it wasn't really conducive to having a 
call. So they found an office. We went to that office. I 
believe I participated in two phone calls, one at 1800 and one 
at 1900, that night from that office.
    Mr. Kinzinger. What time did you actually end up leaving 
the Capitol?
    Mr. Donoghue. I waited until the Senate was back in 
session, which I believe they were gaveled in a few minutes 
after 8 p.m. Once they were back in session and we were 
confident that the entire facility was secured and cleared, 
that there were no individuals hiding in closets or under 
desks, that there were no IEDs or other suspicious devices left 
behind, I left minutes later. I was probably gone by 8:30.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Donoghue, did you ever hear from 
President Trump that day?
    Mr. Donoghue. No. Like the AAG, the Acting AG, I spoke to 
Pat Cipollone and Mark Meadows and the Vice President and the 
congressional leadership, but I never spoke to the President 
that day.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So today's hearing showcased the efforts of 
the Americans before us to stand up for democracy. Mr. Rosen 
and Mr. Donoghue stayed steadfastly committed to the oath they 
take as officials in the Department of Justice. On January 6th 
itself, they assisted during the attack while our Commander-in-
Chief stayed silent. Their bravery is a high moment in the 
sordid story of what led to January 6th.
    My colleagues and I up here also take an oath. Some of them 
failed to uphold theirs and, instead, chose to spread the big 
lie.
    Days after the tragic events of January 6th, some of these 
same Republican Members requested pardons in the waning days of 
the Trump administration.
    Five days after the attack on the Capitol, Representative 
Mo Brooks sent the email on the screen now. As you see, he 
emailed the White House, ``pursuant to a request from Matt 
Gaetz,'' requesting a pardon for Representative Gaetz, himself, 
and unnamed others.
    Witnesses told the Select Committee that the President 
considered offering pardons to a wide range of individuals 
connected to the President. Let's listen to some of that 
testimony.

    Mr. Wood. And was Representative Gaetz requesting a pardon?
    Mr. Herschmann. I believe so. The--the general tone was we may get 
prosecuted because we were defensive of, you know, the President's 
positions on these things. The pardon that he was discussing--
requesting was as broad as you can describe, from beginning--I remember 
he's--from the beginning of time up until today for any and all things. 
Then he mentioned Nixon, and I said, ``Nixon's pardon was never nearly 
that broad.''
    Vice Chair Cheney. And are you aware of any Members of Congress 
seeking pardons?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I guess Mr. Gaetz and Mr. Brooks, I know, have both 
advocated for there'd be a blanket pardon for Members involved in that 
meeting and a--a handful of other Members that weren't at the December 
21st meeting as the preemptive pardons. Mr. Gaetz was personally 
pushing for a pardon, and he was doing so since early December. I'm not 
sure why Mr. Gaetz reached out to me to ask if he could have a meeting 
with Mr. Meadows about receiving a Presidential pardon.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Did they all contact you?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Not all of them, but several of them did.
    Vice Chair Cheney. So you mentioned Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Brooks.
    Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Biggs did. Mr. Jordan talked about 
congressional pardons, but he never asked me for one. It was more for 
an update on whether the White House was going to pardon Members of 
Congress. Mr. Gohmert asked for one as well. Mr. Perry asked for a 
pardon, too, I'm sorry.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Mr. Perry? Did he talk to you directly?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, he did.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Did Marjorie Taylor Greene contact you?
    Ms. Hutchinson. No, she didn't contact me about it. I heard that 
she had asked White House Counsel's Office for a pardon from Mr. 
Philbin, but I didn't frequently communicate with Ms. Greene.
    Mr. Wood. Are you aware of any conversations or communications 
regarding the possibility of giving Congressman Matt Gaetz a pardon?
    Mr. McEntee. I know he had asked for it, but I don't know if he 
ever received one or what happened with it.
    Mr. Wood. How do you know that Congressman Gaetz asked for a 
pardon?
    Mr. McEntee. He told me.
    Mr. Wood. Tell us about that.
    Mr. McEntee. He told me he'd asked Meadows for a pardon.
    Mr. Wood. Were you involved in or did you witness any conversations 
about the possibility of a blanket pardon for everyone involved in 
January 6th?
    Mr. McEntee. I had heard that mentioned, yeah.
    Mr. Wood. Do you know whether the President had any conversations 
about potentially pardoning any family members?
    Mr. McEntee. I know he had hinted at a blanket pardon for the 
January 6th thing for anybody, but I think he had for all the staff and 
everyone involved, not with January 6th, but just before he left 
office, I know he had talked about that.

    Mr. Kinzinger. The only reason I know to ask for a pardon 
is because you think you have committed a crime.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. I want to thank our witnesses for 
joining us today.
    The Members of the Select Committee may have additional 
questions for today's witnesses, and we ask that you respond 
expeditiously in writing to these questions.
    Without objection, Members will be permitted 10 business 
days to submit statements for the record, including opening 
remarks and additional questions for the witnesses.
    Without objection, the Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois for a closing statement.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    The Justice Department lawyers are not the President's 
personal lawyers. We count on them to be on the side of the law 
and to defend the best interests of the United States, not the 
best interests of any political campaign. That is how it has 
been since the Department was founded soon after the Civil War. 
Justice Department lawyers are supposed to play it 100 percent 
straight.
    President Trump tried to erase his loss at the ballot box 
by parachuting an unqualified man into the top job at Justice. 
It was a power play to win at all costs, with no regard for the 
will of the American people. It was about ignoring millions of 
votes. Ignore them, throw them out, label them fraudulent, 
corrupt, illegal, whatever. Facts were clearly just an 
inconvenience.
    From the Oval Office, President Trump urged others to bring 
his big lie to life. He begged, ``Just say the election was 
corrupt, and leave the rest to me and the Republican 
Congressmen.'' He didn't care what the Department's 
investigations proved. What good were facts when they would 
only confirm his loss?
    It is no surprise that all the far-out, fully fabricated, 
whack-job conspiracy theories collapsed under even the 
slightest scrutiny. That insanity went from the internet to the 
highest levels of Government in no time.
    The bottom line? The most senior leadership of the Justice 
Department, from Attorney General Bill Barr to Jeff Rosen, his 
successor, and his deputy, Rich Donoghue--everyone except Jeff 
Clark--was telling President Trump the very same thing: The 
conspiracy theories were false. The allegation of a stolen 
election was a lie. The data left no room for doubt, nothing to 
question. The Constitution left no room for President Trump to 
change the outcome of the election.
    But we are here today because the facts were irrelevant to 
President Trump. It was about protecting his very real power 
and very fragile ego, even if it required recklessly 
undermining our entire electoral system by wildly casting 
baseless doubt upon it.
    In short, he was willing to sacrifice our Republic to 
prolong his Presidency. I can imagine no more dishonorable act 
by a President.
    We owe a great debt of gratitude to these men you have 
heard from here today. Real leaders who stood for Justice when 
it was in grave peril, who put their country first when the 
leader of the free world demanded otherwise. They threatened to 
resign rather than corrupt our democracy. Thanks largely to 
each of them, President Trump's coup failed.
    Contrast that to Jeff Clark, who would do exactly what the 
President wanted: Say there was massive fraud, forget the 
facts, and leave the rest to President Trump's congressional 
friends.
    Mr. Clark refused to cooperate with this Committee. He pled 
the Fifth over 125 times. Why risk self-incrimination?
    President Trump's congressional friends--some of them are 
angling for pardons? They knew that every bit of what they did 
was a lie and it was wrong.
    That is all the more reason to respect those who came here 
to testify today. We thank them for their unflinching service 
in the face of incredible pressure.
    As it is said, ``The only thing necessary for evil to 
succeed is good men to do nothing.'' Thankfully, there were 
good people in the Department of Justice.
    You heard from other good people, too, on Tuesday. They, 
too, defended us.
    But I am still worried that not enough has changed to 
prevent this from happening again.
    The oath that we take has to mean something. It has to cut 
to the core of who we are and be the driving force of our 
service to this Nation.
    We on this Committee, we may be able to shine light on the 
darkness, but that is not enough. It is now up to every 
American, now and in the future, to stand for truth, to reject 
the lies, wherever we confront them--in our towns, in our 
capitals, in our friendships, in our families, and at the 
ballot box, and within our own minds and hearts.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, the Chair recognizes 
the gentlewoman from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for a closing 
statement.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    I again want to thank the witnesses for being here today.
    After today, I suspect that there will be some who label 
you agents of the deep state or something else conspiratorial 
or nonsensical meant to justify ignoring what you have said 
today, ignoring the facts.
    That may be the short-term cost of acting honorably and 
telling the truth, but your actions should have an important 
long-term impact. They will help keep us on the course set by 
the Framers of our Constitution.
    Let me paraphrase the words of John Adams and others: 
Whether ours shall continue to be a Government of laws and not 
of men is ultimately for the American people to decide.
    Let me also today make a broader statement to millions of 
Americans who put their trust in Donald Trump.
    In these hearings so far, you have heard from more than a 
dozen Republicans who have told you what actually happened in 
the weeks before January 6th. You will hear from more in the 
hearings to come. Several of them served Donald Trump in his 
administration; others, in his campaign. Others have been 
conservative Republicans for their entire careers.
    It can be difficult to accept that President Trump abused 
your trust, that he deceived you. Many will invent excuses to 
ignore that fact. But that is a fact. I wish it weren't true, 
but it is.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Again, I thank our witnesses and thank 
my colleagues for this hearing.
    As we conclude our fifth hearing in this series, I want to 
remind the American people of a few things the Committee has 
shown.
    Donald Trump lost the 2020 election. Top Republican 
officials who supported Trump knew that he lost and told him he 
lost. Trump knew he lost.
    Those who say the election was affected by widespread voter 
fraud are lying. They were lying in 2020, they were lying in 
2021, and, indeed, they are lying today.
    Donald Trump went to court. That is the right of any 
candidate seeking to challenge the outcome of an election. 
Donald Trump lost in court dozens and dozens of times.
    He lost in part because there was no evidence that voter 
fraud had any impact on the results of the election. To borrow 
a phrase from our witness earlier this week, Mr. Bowers, all he 
had was theories and no evidence.
    As I have said, if you are running for office in the United 
States, that is the end of the line. You accept the court's 
judgment. You concede the race. You respect the rule of law and 
the will of the voters.
    But for Donald Trump, that wasn't the end of the line. Not 
even close.
    The voters refused to keep him in office. The courts 
refused to keep him in office. But he continued to lie. He went 
in search of anyone who would go along with his scheme.
    As we have shown today, he pressured the Justice Department 
to act as an arm of his reelection campaign. He hoped law 
enforcement officials would give the appearance of legitimacy 
to his lies so he and his allies had some veneer of credibility 
when they told the country that the election was stolen.
    Earlier this week, we showed how Donald Trump brought the 
weight of the Presidency down on local and State officials who 
were trying to do their jobs--and ultimately did. They 
investigated his claims and found them to be false. Then they 
endured Trump's pressure campaign, at great risk to themselves 
and their loved ones.
    Of course, there was the scheme to get the former Vice 
President, Mike Pence, to violate the law and the Constitution 
by rejecting the electoral college votes on January 6th and 
blocking the peaceful transfer of power.
    I mention the former Vice President last because, as we 
showed, when he refused to bow to the pressure in those 
critical moments on January 6th, there was a back-up plan for 
stopping the transfer of power: The mob and their vile threats.
    Up to this point, we have shown the inner workings of what 
was essentially a political coup--an attempt to use the powers 
of the Government, from the local level all the way up, to 
overturn the results of the election.
    Find me the votes. Send fake electors. Just say the 
election was corrupt.
    Along the way, we saw threats of violence; we saw what some 
people were willing to do. In service of the Nation? Of the 
Constitution? No. In service of Donald Trump.
    When the Select Committee continues this series of 
hearings, we are going to show how Donald Trump tapped into the 
threat of violence; how he summoned the mob to Washington; and 
how, after corruption and political pressure failed to keep 
Donald Trump in office, violence became the last option.
    Our investigation is ongoing. Those hearings have spurred 
an influx of new information that the Committee and our 
investigators are working to assess. We are committed to 
presenting the American people with the most complete 
information possible. That will be our aim when we reconvene in 
the coming weeks.
    The Chair requests those in the hearing room remain seated 
until the Capitol Police have escorted Members from the room.
    Without objection, the Committee stands adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 5:28 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.]



                            A P P E N D I X

                              ----------                              

 Prepared Statement of Jeffrey A. Rosen, Former Acting Attorney General
                             June 15, 2022
    Chairman Thompson and Vice Chair Cheney, thank you for inviting me 
to appear here today with my former colleagues Richard Donoghue and 
Steven Engel. Serving alongside them and the many other dedicated 
employees of the Justice Department was an extraordinary honor. They 
were and are an exceptional team of public servants who always put the 
best interests of our Country first. In the interest of time, I have 
submitted a copy of my prior opening statements to the House Oversight 
Committee and Senate Judiciary Committee, and would ask that both be 
entered into the public record.
    With respect to my tenure at the Department of Justice, my priority 
was to ensure the Department would always proceed on the basis of the 
facts and the legal merits, to enforce the Constitution and preserve 
the rule of law. We did that with unfailing fidelity under sometimes 
very challenging circumstances.
    During my tenure as Acting Attorney General, the Justice Department 
maintained the position that the Department had been presented with no 
evidence of widespread voter fraud at a scale sufficient to change the 
outcome of the 2020 election. We thus held firm to the position that 
the Department would not participate in any campaign's or political 
party's legal challenges to the certification of the Electoral College 
votes. We also insisted that there must be an orderly and peaceful 
transfer of power under the Constitution. In particular, during my 
tenure, we appointed no special prosecutors; sent no letters to States 
or State legislators disputing the election outcome; and made no public 
statements saying the election was corrupt and should be overturned. We 
initiated no Supreme Court actions, nor filed or joined any other 
lawsuits, calling into question the legitimacy of our election and 
institutions. To the contrary, the only time the Department filed a 
brief in court, it was to say that a Congress Member's lawsuit to 
overturn the election should be dismissed, as it was.
    Some argued to the former President and public that the election 
was corrupt and stolen. That view was wrong then and it is wrong today, 
and I hope our presence here today helps reaffirm that fact.
    Thank you and I am happy to answer your questions.
                                 ______
                                 
Hearing Before the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Oversight 
                               and Reform
                              May 12, 2021
  Testimony of Jeffrey A. Rosen, Former Acting United States Attorney 
                  General and Deputy Attorney General
    Chairwoman Maloney, Ranking Member Comer, and Members of the 
Committee, good morning and thank you for the opportunity to join this 
hearing today. Because this is my first appearance before this 
Committee since June 2005, please allow me to introduce myself again. I 
am Jeff Rosen, and from December 24, 2020 to January 20, 2021, I had 
the honor and privilege of serving as the Acting Attorney General of 
the United States. Since graduating from law school in 1982, I have 
lived and worked in our nation's capital region, including more than 9 
years of public service at three different Federal agencies. My first 
position was as General Counsel of the Department of Transportation 
under Secretary Norman Mineta, followed by service as General Counsel 
and Senior Advisor at the Office of Management & Budget under then-
Director, now-Senator Rob Portman. After several years back in private 
practice, I was Deputy Secretary of Transportation under Secretary 
Elaine Chao, and after that I became Deputy Attorney General at the 
Department of Justice (``DOJ'') under William Barr. After Attorney 
General Barr's departure in December 2020, I became the Acting Attorney 
General, leading the Department until the end of the Trump 
Administration. My testimony today relates to my time as Acting 
Attorney General, and I appreciate this opportunity to discuss the 
actions taken by DOJ on January 6, 2021, to help restore order at the 
Capitol and enable the completion of Congress' certification of the 
2020 Electoral College vote.
                              introduction
    The events of January 6 were a national travesty and an intolerable 
attack on our representative democracy. To those who risked their 
safety to protect everyone at the Capitol: I honor your bravery. To the 
families of the Capitol Police officers who were injured that day or 
died in the wake of the attack: I extend my deepest sympathy. And to 
all of you and your staff who lived through that day: I share the 
justified anger at what the violent mob of attackers put you through.
    Although the storming of the Capitol was a tragic episode in our 
nation's history, I take some comfort in the resilience of our 
institutions in the face of such an attack, as demonstrated by 
Congress's ability to reconvene and fulfill its constitutional duties 
just hours after the breach. I am also proud of the efforts of DOJ, 
which urgently deployed more than 500 agents and officers from the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (``FBI''); the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco, and Firearms (``ATF''); and the US Marshals Service (``USMS'') 
to assist in restoring order at the Capitol. These outstanding men and 
women moved with urgency to assist the Capitol Police and others in the 
midst of an unprecedented security breach, and helped to clear and 
secure the hallowed epicenter of representative government.
    I am also proud of the swift action taken thereafter by DOJ 
personnel in the FBI and the DC US Attorney's Office to investigate and 
work to hold accountable those responsible for the disgraceful attack 
on the Capitol. As I said publicly on January 7, 2021: ``Yesterday, our 
Nation watched in disbelief as a mob breached the Capitol Building and 
required Federal and local law enforcement to help restore order. The 
Department of Justice is committed to ensuring that those responsible 
for this attack on our Government and the rule of law face the full 
consequences of their actions under the law. Our criminal prosecutors 
have been working throughout the night with special agents and 
investigators from the U.S. Capitol Police, FBI, ATF, Metropolitan 
Police Department and the public to gather the evidence, identify 
perpetrators, and charge Federal crimes where warranted. Some 
participants in yesterday's violence will be charged today, and we will 
continue to methodically assess evidence, charge crimes and make 
arrests in the coming days and weeks to ensure that those responsible 
are held accountable under the law.'' (attached as Ex. A).
    I appreciate the importance of today's oversight hearing, and I 
welcome the opportunity to share with you what I know about the January 
6 events in light of my prior roles at the DOJ. The Justice Department 
plays a special role in our government, and must be guided by our 
Constitution and the rule of law. I can tell you that is what guided 
me. My focus was consistently on following the rule of law and enabling 
the orderly transition of power in the manner contemplated in our 
Constitution and laws. Upon learning of the events at the Capitol on 
January 6, my priorities were threefold: securing the Capitol following 
the breach, supporting the Congress as it sought to fulfill its duty to 
certify the Electoral College vote, and beginning the critical work of 
holding accountable those who committed wrongful acts at the Capitol.
    I want to note as a threshold matter that there are some 
unavoidable limitations on the testimony I can provide today. For one, 
my access to information is limited because I am no longer with DOJ. 
Further, while the events of that day will be with me forever, my 
memory is unlikely to be perfect, as some aspects are seared in memory 
and others have become a blur. Moreover, I have only been authorized by 
DOJ to testify on certain topics, as I am bound to maintain certain 
information in confidence and must avoid making any statements that 
could interfere with the numerous ongoing investigations and 
prosecutions of individuals involved in the events of January 6. I 
appreciate your patience and understanding as to those, as I do my best 
to answer your questions.
                   i. doj actions prior to january 6
    On December 24, 2020, with the departure of William Barr, I became 
Acting Attorney General. During my tenure, DOJ maintained the position 
publicly announced previously that the Department had been presented 
with no evidence of widespread voter fraud at a scale sufficient to 
change the outcome of the 2020 election, that it would not participate 
in any campaign's or political party's legal challenges to the 
certification of the Electoral College votes, and that there would be 
an orderly and peaceful transfer of power under the Constitution. 
During my tenure, no special prosecutors were appointed, whether for 
election fraud or otherwise; no public statements were made questioning 
the election; no letters were sent to State officials seeking to 
overturn the election results; no DOJ court actions or filings were 
submitted seeking to overturn election results, and the only time DOJ 
did file a brief it was to seek a dismissal of Representative Gohmert's 
lawsuit aiming to decertify the electoral count--and that lawsuit was 
dismissed, as DOJ had urged.
    In the days and weeks leading up to Congress's January 6 vote to 
certify the results of the Electoral College, DOJ, FBI, and other law 
enforcement agencies learned that there would likely be rallies and 
protests in Washington D.C. on that day, including near the Ellipse and 
the US Capitol, among other possible locations. By itself, that was not 
unusual: the National Capital Region periodically and with some 
regularity hosts protests, rallies, and other demonstrations that can 
pose safety or security threats. The District of Columbia Metropolitan 
Police Department (``MPD''), Park Police, and Capitol Police are all 
experienced at dealing with such events. For example, they had dealt 
with protest disturbances related to the election results as recently 
as November and December 2020, and the Capitol Police (which are a part 
of the legislative branch) handled days of protests pledging to ``flood 
the Capitol'' during the nomination hearing of now-Justice Kavanaugh in 
October 2018.
    As you know, the police departments are not a part of DOJ, and DOJ 
does not have authority to control their activities. But as an 
investigative and prosecutorial agency, DOJ--primarily through the 
FBI--would normally focus on gathering intelligence about potential 
threats of violence and sharing information with police and Federal 
partner agencies about those threats, while the Department of Homeland 
Security (``DHS'') Office of Intelligence and Analysis and the police 
were likewise gathering available intelligence as well.
    From a leadership standpoint, my role was to ensure that the DOJ 
organization was appropriately fulfilling its functions. I fulfilled 
that obligation. Formal information coordination activities among DOJ, 
various police departments--including the Capitol Police and MPD--and 
various Federal agencies accelerated during the week of December 28. 
MPD initiated a Joint Operations Command Center. The FBI's Washington 
Field Office (``WFO'') set up a regular command post to share 
information among the FBI, ATF, DHS, and each of the various police 
organizations in the District (including the Capitol Police who are 
part of the legislative branch and report to Congress). And the 
District of Columbia US Attorney's Office arranged a number of 
conference calls to coordinate among local and Federal law enforcement. 
On January 5, the FBI took the added step of setting up a national 
coordination center at its Strategic Information and Operations Center 
(``SIOC''). Located at FBI headquarters, the SIOC was geared toward 
facilitating better coordination and sharing of information, among the 
Federal agencies, including DHS, the Department of the Interior 
(``DOI''), and the Department of Defense (``DOD''). Each of these 
Federal agencies supplied personnel to staff the SIOC 24/7 beginning on 
January 5 and 6, and continuing for a period thereafter. It was my 
understanding that the SIOC also coordinated closely with the WFO post, 
and thus the partners located there as well.
    I am aware that FBI Director Wray and Assistant Director Sanborn 
have testified publicly about the FBI's work regarding the events of 
January 6, and the work the FBI did, along with others, to gather 
intelligence about the planned events and the risk of violence. Based 
on the updates I received, I was confident that very substantial 
efforts were undertaken by DOJ personnel in advance of January 6 to 
understand and prepare for the potential threats, and share that 
information with law enforcement partners. During the week of December 
28, I received reports that MPD and others estimated that between 
10,000 and 30,000 people would be coming for the rallies or protests on 
January 6--a sizable, but not unprecedented number. Crowd size remained 
a continuing topic of conversation during the ensuing week, but, based 
on what was reported to me, projections did not materially change.
    As is generally the case with large protests or demonstrations in 
the National Capital Region, it was expected that experienced police 
departments like the Capitol Police, the Park Police, and MPD would 
bear responsibility for crowd control and security in their respective 
jurisdictions.\1\ The Department of Defense, which includes the Army 
National Guard, provided 340 personnel to assist MPD and placed others 
on standby. On January 4, MPD arrested the leader of the Proud Boys 
militia group for prior violent acts, and prosecutors obtained a 
judicial order barring him from the city on January 6. District of 
Columbia Mayor Muriel Bowser wrote to Acting Defense Secretary Miller 
and me that MPD ``is prepared for this week's First Amendment 
Activities,'' and that other than the logistical support of unarmed 
members of the DC National Guard, DC ``has not requested personnel from 
any other Federal law enforcement agencies.'' (attached as Ex. B.)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\ In these types of situations, DOJ performs intelligence-
gathering, information-sharing, and after-the-fact investigation and 
prosecution where warranted.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Nonetheless, although not specifically requested by MPD, Capitol 
Police, or any other agencies, my office directed various DOJ entities 
to take cautionary steps to alert or pre-position tactical teams if 
needed for support on January 6. For example, the FBI's Hostage Rescue 
team and Render Safe teams were activated; an additional FBI SWAT team 
from Baltimore was repositioned to Washington, DC.; ATF Special 
Response Teams were pre-positioned in Virginia for activation if 
needed; and USMS Special Operations Group personnel were also pre-
positioned in Virginia for deployment if needed.\2\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\ Additionally, as it was conceivable that some protesters might 
be unhappy with DOJ's not having filed court actions regarding the 
election outcome, DOJ arranged for tactical support from Bureau of 
Prisons personnel to supplement existing security at its own RFK 
Building.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    I believe that DOJ reasonably prepared for contingencies ahead of 
January 6, understanding that there was considerable uncertainty as to 
how many people would arrive, who those people would be, and precisely 
what purposes they would pursue. Unlike the police, DOJ had no 
frontline role with respect to crowd control. The FBI, ATF, DEA, and 
U.S. Attorneys' offices, as investigative and prosecuting agencies, are 
generally not equipped for crowd control. But DOJ took appropriate 
precautions to have tactical support available if contingencies led to 
them being called upon.
                     ii. doj's actions on january 6
    The demonstrations and protests expected for January 6 had been a 
significant focus of attention for DOJ and FBI leadership in the week 
prior, and they continued to be so on the day of the events. On the 
morning of January 6, Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General 
Richard Donoghue \3\ and I met with FBI leadership for the latest 
updates and preparation. I continued to talk to Principal Associate 
Deputy Attorney General Donoghue and FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich 
throughout the day and their proactive engagement and decisionmaking 
were simply invaluable.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \3\ During this time, Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General 
Donoghue was performing the functions of the Deputy Attorney General, 
due to my taking the position of Acting Attorney General.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In the early afternoon, as President Trump was speaking to an 
audience at the Ellipse, I contacted the Acting US Attorney for the 
District of Columbia, Michael Sherwin, in part to inquire if the crowd 
size there was consistent with or larger than the forecasts. He was 
personally in the vicinity of the event and reported that the size of 
the crowd was on the lower side of the forecast and conceivably might 
have been below the lower end of the range. He also indicated that the 
crowd at the Ellipse did not appear to be violent or unruly.
    Reports after that conversation were more negative. ATF was 
notified of potential explosive devices having been placed at the 
Republican and Democratic National Committee offices. ATF promptly sent 
a team of experts to deal with the explosive devices, in coordination 
with the Capitol Police and MPD. Subsequently, I observed on television 
the events as the crowd moved from the Ellipse, up Constitution Avenue, 
and then to the US Capitol. During that time, I recall receiving 
updates from Acting US Attorney Sherwin and others.
    Sometime around 2 o'clock p.m., I was horrified and dismayed as I 
saw on television the crowd breaching the Capitol. I soon learned that 
ATF and FBI, among others, had just received requests for assistance 
from the Capitol Police and were beginning to respond. My office asked 
ATF, FBI, and the USMS to provide as much help as possible as quickly 
as possible, including deploying the pre-positioned resources. I also 
recall receiving phone calls from White House staff requesting that DOJ 
provide as much help as we could; I reported to them that we were doing 
so. I also received calls from multiple Members of Congress and staff, 
including members of leadership in both the House and Senate. I 
informed them that DOJ was sending help as quickly as possible. As I 
monitored the continuing events, I spoke multiple times with DOJ 
personnel who were onsite and coordinated with my counterparts across 
the Federal government.
    My understanding is that ATF had some personnel arrive to the 
Capitol very quickly, with sizable numbers following by 2:40 p.m. FBI 
personnel, including from the Hostage Rescue and SWAT teams, and 
personnel from the USMS Special Operations Group also deployed urgently 
to the Capitol. In total, more than 500 DOJ personnel surged to the 
Capitol to help clear the building and secure it so that the Congress 
could resume its business. It is my understanding that DHS likewise 
sent personnel from the Federal Protective Service and from Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement and that MPD and other local police departments 
also sent officers to assist the Capitol Police that afternoon.
    My original plan had been to go to the FBI SIOC for the afternoon, 
which was at the FBI headquarters just across the street from my 
office, but the urgency of the phone discussions and the need to 
coordinate with my DOJ staff in responding to the attack on the Capitol 
complex prevented my doing so. Instead, Principal Associate Deputy 
Attorney General Donoghue went to the SIOC and provided me with ongoing 
updates. As the attack continued, he and FBI Deputy Director Bowdich 
personally went to the Capitol building, to the Rotunda, and continued 
to provide me with situation reports from inside the building as 
efforts to restore order remained underway. I shared information with 
others and sometimes facilitated others talking directly with Principal 
Associate Deputy Attorney General Donoghue and Deputy Director Bowdich. 
I also took steps to let the public know where DOJ stood with respect 
to the attacks: I directed my staff to begin drafting a statement 
condemning the attacks. After internal review at DOJ, this statement 
was released later that same afternoon (attached as Ex. B).
    It is my understanding that by approximately 5 o'clock to 5:30 
p.m., the efforts at the Capitol to clear out the attackers had largely 
succeeded in doing so with the help of the more than 500 DOJ agents and 
officers who had deployed, but work remained, as those DOJ personnel 
were then working with the Capitol Police and others to check for 
explosives and to otherwise secure the offices and chambers in the 
Capitol building, so that Congress could return that same day and 
complete the electoral count.
    At 7 o'clock p.m., I, Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General 
Donoghue, and others from DOJ participated in a conference call that 
included congressional leaders and representatives from DHS and DOD, as 
well as others. Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General Donoghue 
provided a situation report, and congressional leaders wanted to know 
if it would be feasible for the Congress to return and complete its 
business that evening. Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General 
Donoghue told them he expected Congress could return by 8 o'clock p.m., 
which is what happened, with Vice President Pence reconvening the 
Senate at 8:06 p.m.
    Accordingly, Congress returned and completed its constitutional 
role in certifying the votes of the Electoral College that evening. 
With the achievement of the twin objectives of restoring order at the 
Capitol and enabling Congress to fulfill its electoral count obligation 
under the Constitution, I was and remain extremely appreciative for the 
work done that afternoon and into the night by the women and men of the 
FBI, ATF, and USMS, as well as others at the DC US Attorney's Office 
and elsewhere in DOJ. They, and all the others from DHS, DOD, DOI, and 
the various police departments who went to that Capitol that afternoon 
to help restore order, accomplished a vital feat for our country, and 
we owe them our deepest gratitude.
                   iii. doj's actions after january 6
    DOJ also immediately began work to ensure that those responsible 
for the attack on the Capitol would face the full consequences of their 
actions under the law. Acting US Attorney Sherwin and his team, along 
with the FBI and police counterparts, began charging participants in 
the violence as early as January 7. Within the first week after the 
attack, more than 70 individuals had been criminally charged, and DOJ 
had opened more than 170 investigations and gathered over 100,000 
digital tips.
    DOJ also sent the clear message that further violence would not be 
tolerated in the lead up to President-Elect Biden's inauguration. In a 
January 13 video message, I expressed DOJ's support for the exercise of 
constitutional rights but also strongly warned that ``I want to send a 
clear message to anyone contemplating violence, threats of violence, or 
other criminal conduct: We will have no tolerance whatsoever for any 
attempts to disrupt the peaceful transfer of power on January 20th that 
our Constitution calls for . . . [t]he Department of Justice will seek 
to hold any violators accountable to the fullest extent of the law.''
    The work of investigating and prosecuting those who attacked the 
Capitol on January 6 continues to this day and is now in the capable 
hands of my former DOJ colleagues and the new DOJ leadership team. To 
avoid interfering in these ongoing matters, I must leave it to others 
to answer any questions regarding them as they deem appropriate.
                             iv. conclusion
    January 6 was a dark and harrowing day for America. And though I 
remain saddened by the events of that day, I am nonetheless grateful 
that physical harm to Members of Congress was avoided and that, because 
of the prompt work that was done to clear and secure the Capitol, 
Congress was able to complete its work that same evening. I am also 
proud of the role DOJ played in helping to restore order and all we 
were able to accomplish alongside our partners from various police 
forces, Federal departments and law enforcement agencies, and the 
National Guard.
    What the attackers did that day was terrible in its violence, the 
loss of life, and injuries suffered. But it was also terrible because 
it constituted an assault on a building that is a fundamental symbol of 
our democracy, on the institution of Congress itself, and on an 
electoral process required by our Constitution. As a society, we need 
to restore greater respect and appreciation for our Constitution, our 
representative democracy, and the rule of law. As I have said before, 
violence and senseless criminal conduct are not the right way to 
resolve differences or promote change in our country. And they will not 
carry the day.
    In closing, I would like to publicly thank my former DOJ colleagues 
and everyone who played a role in bringing order to chaos on January 6. 
I will leave it to others to assess why the security at the Capitol was 
not sufficient to protect the building that afternoon in the first 
instance, but the assistance that was provided after the breach 
occurred is something that deserves appreciation. I will also leave it 
to appropriate authorities to assess responsibility for what happened 
and determine any precipitating causes.
    Finally, if any valuable lesson could come out of the disturbing 
events from the Capitol riots, perhaps it might be that Americans of 
all backgrounds and political affiliations could agree that we cannot 
have anything like that happen again. Our Constitution, our traditions, 
and our ideals as a nation must be respected and revered. I know that 
all of you share that wish as well.
[GRAPHICS NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
                                 
   Prepared Statement of Steven A. Engel, Former Assistant Attorney 
      General, Office of Legal Counsel, U.S. Department of Justice
                             June 15, 2022
    Good morning, Chairman Thompson, Vice Chairwoman Cheney, and 
Members of the committee. I appear this morning at the Committee's 
request, and I thank you for the opportunity to make an opening 
statement.
    Although the topics to be discussed involve Presidential 
communications and the deliberative processes within the executive 
branch, the U.S. Department of Justice has authorized me to provide 
testimony on the particular subjects identified by the Committee, and 
former President Trump previously authorized Department officials to 
discuss these matters with the committees of Congress. I will therefore 
seek to answer the Committee's questions to the best of my ability.
    I was privileged to serve as the Assistant Attorney General of the 
Office of Legal Counsel from November 2017 through January 2021. In 
that role, I served as the chief counsel to the Attorney General and 
the principal legal adviser to the executive branch. During that 
period, we sought to ensure that our legal advice would assist the 
President and his cabinet secretaries in discharging their 
responsibilities within the boundaries of the Constitution and laws of 
the United States, and in the interest of the people of the United 
States. Our commitment to that work remained the same both before and 
after the election of November 2020.
    Following the November 2020 election, in an effort to promote 
confidence in the election results, Attorney General Barr authorized 
the Department to review and, where appropriate, to investigate reports 
of fraud and irregularities as they came in. The Department's senior 
officials ultimately concluded that there was no evidence of widespread 
voter fraud on a scale sufficient to change the outcome of the 
election, and Attorney General Barr reported that publicly in early 
December.
    Although I was not personally responsible for these investigations, 
I did not doubt the judgment of the Attorney General and the 
Department's senior leadership. As a Presidential candidate, President 
Trump and his campaign had every right to pursue litigation in 
contesting the election results in the various Federal and State 
courts. But absent credible evidence of a violation of Federal law, the 
Department did not have any role to play in these election contests.
    This view was widely shared among the Department's senior 
leadership, including by Acting Attorney General Rosen. Yet we 
discovered in late December that one of the Assistant Attorneys 
General, Jeff Clark, took a different view. Mr. Clark believed that the 
Department should publicly assert that the election results had been 
marred by fraud and should urge several of the States to replace their 
previously certified electors. Mr. Clark's views came to the attention 
of President Trump, who considered whether Mr. Clark should replace the 
Acting Attorney General at the helm of the Department of Justice.
    The Department's senior leadership, as well as the White House 
Counsel, believed that Mr. Clark's plan lacked any factual or legal 
basis. On January 3, we met with the President and with Mr. Clark to 
explain why the Clark plan should not be pursued. We also made clear 
that the Department's leadership could not remain if the President 
chose to pursue that course. Following that discussion, President Trump 
agreed with us, and he retained Acting Attorney General Rosen through 
the end of his Administration.
    It was a great honor to serve at the Department of Justice, and I 
was privileged during my time to work with many lawyers of integrity 
and honor, including those sitting beside me today. The Department's 
leadership clearly understood our responsibility to ensure the neutral 
enforcement of the law, to protect our Constitution, and to assist in 
the peaceful transfer of power.
    Thank you for the opportunity to make this statement, and I will 
seek to answer the Committee's questions today to the best of my 
ability.

                                 [all]
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 11 (Tuesday, January 18, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S229-S231]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LEGISLATIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

            NASA ENHANCED USE LEASING EXTENSION ACT OF 2021

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President--of the Senate pro tempore, as well--Mr. 
President, it is my understanding the Senate has received a message 
from the House of Representatives to accompany H.R. 5746.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator is correct.
  Mr. SCHUMER. I ask that the Chair lay before the Senate the House 
message to accompany H.R. 5746.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The question is on agreeing to the motion 
to lay before the Senate the message from the House.
  The motion was agreed to.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will report the bill by title.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate the following 
message from the House of Representatives.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       Resolved, That the House agree to the amendment of the 
     Senate to the bill (H.R. 5746) entitled ``An Act to amend 
     title 51, United States Code, to extend the authority of the 
     National Aeronautics and Space Administration to enter into 
     leases of nonexcess property of the Administration.'', with 
     an amendment.


                            Motion to Concur

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I move to concur in the House amendment 
to the Senate amendment to H.R. 5746.


                Motion to Concur with Amendment No. 4903

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I move to concur in the House amendment 
to the Senate amendment to H.R. 5746 with an amendment.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       The Senator from New York [Mr. Schumer] moves to concur in 
     the House amendment to the Senate amendment with an amendment 
     numbered 4903.

  Mr. SCHUMER. I ask that further reading of the amendment be waived.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The amendment is as follows:

                  (Purpose: To add an effective date)

       At the end add the following:

     SEC. __. EFFECTIVE DATE.

       This Act shall take effect on the date that is 1 day after 
     the date of enactment of this Act.

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the motion 
to concur with an amendment.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.


                Amendment No. 4904 to Amendment No. 4903

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I have an amendment to the amendment, 
which is at the desk.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       The Senator from New York [Mr. Schumer] proposes an 
     amendment numbered 4904 to amendment No. 4903.

  Mr. SCHUMER. I ask that further reading of the amendment be dispensed 
with.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The amendment is as follows:

                (Purpose: To modify the effective date)

        On page 1, line 3, strike ``1 day'' and insert ``2 days''.


                   Motion to Refer Amendment No. 4905

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I move to refer the House message to 
accompany H.R. 5746 to the Committee on Rules, with instructions to 
report back forthwith with an amendment.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will report the motion.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       The Senator from New York [Mr. Schumer] refers the House 
     message to accompany H.R. 5746 to the Committee on Rules with 
     instructions to report back forthwith with an amendment 
     numbered 4905.

  Mr. SCHUMER. I ask that further reading be dispensed with.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The amendment is as follows:

[[Page S230]]

  


                  (Purpose: To add an effective date)

       At the end add the following:

     SEC. __. EFFECTIVE DATE.

       This Act shall take effect on the date that is 4 days after 
     the date of enactment of this Act.

  Mr. SCHUMER. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.


                           Amendment No. 4906

  Mr. SCHUMER. I have an amendment to the instructions, which is at the 
desk.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       The Senator from New York [Mr. Schumer] proposes an 
     amendment numbered 4906 to the instructions with the motion 
     to concur.

  Mr. SCHUMER. I ask that further reading be dispensed with.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The amendment is as follows:

                (Purpose: To modify the effective date)

        On page 1, line 3, strike ``4'' and insert ``5''.

  Mr. SCHUMER. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.


                Amendment No. 4907 to Amendment No. 4906

  Mr. SCHUMER. I have an amendment to the amendment, which is at the 
desk.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       The Senator from New York [Mr. Schumer] proposes an 
     amendment numbered 4907 to amendment No. 4906.

  Mr. SCHUMER. I ask that further reading be dispensed with.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The amendment is as follows:

                (Purpose: To modify the effective date)

        On page 1, line 1, strike ``5'' and insert ``6''.

                             Cloture Motion

  Mr. SCHUMER. I send a cloture motion to the motion to concur to the 
desk.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the cloture motion.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the motion to 
     concur in the House amendment to the Senate amendment to H.R. 
     5746, a bill to amend title 51, United States Code, to extend 
     the authority of the National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration to enter into leases of non-excess property of 
     the Administration.
         Charles E. Schumer, Jacky Rosen, Cory A. Booker, Richard 
           J. Durbin, Jack Reed, Amy Klobuchar, Jeff Merkley, 
           Tammy Duckworth, Robert Menendez, Chris Van Hollen, 
           Richard Blumenthal, Sheldon Whitehouse, Patty Murray, 
           Benjamin L. Cardin, Elizabeth Warren, Christopher 
           Murphy, Ben Ray Lujan.

  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from New York.


                   Congregation Beth Israel Shooting

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, before I begin the substance of my 
remarks, I want to offer a few words in reaction to the terrible 
hostage situation this weekend in Texas.
  Saturday's hostage crisis at Congregation Beth Israel was a 
horrifying reminder that the ancient poison of anti-Semitism continues 
to this day. I am relieved that all of the hostages made it out alive, 
and I commend the quick thinking of the first responders and of Rabbi 
Charlie Citron-Walker, who acted valiantly, and all those present for 
bringing this crisis to an end.
  Moving forward, we must get to the bottom of what inspired the 
terrorist attack on Saturday but increase our vigilance against all 
forms of anti-Semitism and racially motivated violence.
  Here in Congress, we must continue working to increase our investment 
in nonprofit security grants to groups that are targets of hate. We 
need to give our communities the tools they need to protect themselves 
so they can live without fear of being targeted for just who they are.
  On this day, I stand in solidarity with the congregation of Beth 
Israel, the Jewish community of Greater Dallas-Ft. Worth, and with all 
Jewish Americans for whom Saturday's attack was a traumatic reminder of 
the hate we have yet to overcome.


                             Voting Rights

  Mr. President, this is on defending democracy. The eyes of the Nation 
will be watching what happens this week in the U.S. Senate.
  Just a few days removed from what would have been Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr.'s 93rd birthday, the Senate has begun debate on the Freedom 
to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act--for the 
first time, the first time in this Congress.
  Democrats have tried for months to hold a voting rights debate on the 
floor, but we have been blocked each time by Republicans. We brought 
commonsense proposals four times on the floor of the Senate and only 
once did one Senator--Lisa Murkowski, to her credit--agree to even 
begin debate on voting rights. On all three other votes, not a single 
Republican joined us. Every one of them voted to block even a debate on 
voting rights.
  So, today, we are taking this step by using a message from the House. 
Now, it is just a step, but an important step moving forward, in that 
we will finally debate this one issue that is so central to the 
American people, to our history, and to our democracy.
  As we debate these measures, the Senate will confront a critical 
question: Shall the Members of this Chamber do what is necessary to 
pass these bills and bring them closer to the President's desk?
  Today, we have just taken the first steps that will put everyone--
everyone--on the record. Much has been said over the past few days 
about the prospects of passing voting rights legislation in this 
Chamber. Senate Democrats are under no illusion that we face difficult 
odds, especially when virtually every Senate Republican--every Senate 
Republican--is staunchly against legislation protecting the right to 
vote.
  But I want to be clear. When this Chamber confronts a question this 
important--one so vital to our country, so vital to our ideals, so 
vital to the future of our democracy--you don't slide it off the table 
and say, ``Never mind.'' Win, lose, or draw, Members of this Chamber 
were elected to debate and to vote, especially on an issue as vital to 
the beating heart of our democracy as voting rights. The public is 
entitled to know where each Senator stands on an issue as sacrosanct as 
defending our democracy. The American people deserve to see their 
Senators go on record on whether they will support these bills or 
oppose them. Indeed, that may be the only way to make progress on this 
issue now, for the public to see where each of us in this Chamber 
stands. The public deserves to see it, and that is exactly, precisely, 
what the Senate is going to do this week.

  Make no mistake about it. Using Dr. King as an inspiration, Democrats 
will continue to fight on this issue until we succeed, and I believe 
history will vindicate us.
  Mr. President, the fight over voting rights is as old as the Republic 
itself. Recently--well, let me say, when the Republic was founded, in 
many States you had to be a White male Protestant property owner to 
vote. As is obvious by who is in this Chamber, we have made progress--
inexorable progress--in expanding that franchise.
  History does not regard those restrictions that occurred early on as 
worthy, but we must continue the fight. We have not reached the place 
where every person can vote easily and openly and honestly. So we have 
to keep it up.
  I have been reading the biography of Ulysses S. Grant by Ron Chernow. 
The No. 1 thing the southern segregationists wanted to take away from 
the newly freed slaves was the right to vote. Segregationists back then 
knew that if recently freed Black slaves didn't have the right to vote 
in the South, they would have no power at all: no power over laws, over 
resources, over the future of the country. And that was the No. 1 thing 
segregationists wanted to prevent: the right of the newly freed slaves 
to vote.
  It is why, a century later, Dr. King made a direct appeal to Congress 
for acting on voting rights: ``Give us the

[[Page S231]]

ballot,'' he said in 1957, ``and we will no longer have to worry the 
federal government about our basic rights.'' ``Give us the ballot'' and 
all other rights will follow. With the ballot, he argued, voters could 
end the worst of racial segregation. They could elect good men and good 
women to government. They could subdue the dangers of the mob and keep 
democracy alive. But the ballot had to come first. The ballot had to 
come first.
  Dr. King might as well have been speaking to us, because across the 
United States, in 2022, ballot access is not being expanded; it is 
being repressed. And our democracy is not safe; it is under attack.
  A year ago, a violent mob incited by the President and his Big Lie 
attacked this very building in order to reverse the results of a free 
and fair election. Last week, for the first time, the Department of 
Justice announced sedition charges against a number of the rioters who 
were here that day.
  A year later, at least 19 States have passed 33 laws that make it 
harder for people to vote, using the Big Lie--the Big Lie, as false as 
it is--as a justification. Those States together are home to 55 million 
Americans, and new laws are certainly coming once the State 
legislatures return to session this year. And the kind of violence--the 
threats of violence--we saw on January 6 by that insurrectionist mob is 
now being threatened increasingly against countless election workers 
across the country.
  Just this weekend, the Houston Chronicle reported that ``County 
officials in urban areas across the State [of Texas] say they've been 
forced to reject an unprecedented number of mail ballot applications 
[thanks to the new Republican voter suppression law.]
  And this past Saturday, Donald Trump once again repeated the same 
conspiracy theories about the 2020 election that have paved the way for 
voter suppression at the State level.
  So, unfortunately, the dangers that face our democracy are alive and 
well, and the laws that suppress the vote at the State level are being 
enacted on a partisan basis.
  We have seen periods of regression, in terms of voting rights and 
equality and fairness to people of color. We have seen regression 
occur. And this seems to be a period of regression in what the 
legislatures are doing, and fight it we must.
  So the Senate must act. We must step in and act. We must do 
everything to pass voting rights legislation, just as this Chamber has 
done in the past, just as the Constitution permits us to do. That is 
why we will vote this week on the Freedom to Vote Act and the John 
Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act. And if Republicans choose to 
continue their filibuster of voting rights legislation, we must 
consider and vote on the rule changes that are appropriate and 
necessary to restore the Senate and make voting legislation possible.
  As I have recounted already, these laws are urgently needed. We must 
not--we cannot--allow another period of that regression, which we have 
seen throughout American history.
  Here is what some of the laws would do--our two laws would do:
  They would set basic commonsense standards for all Americans for 
access to the ballot as well as restore preclearance provisions that 
were passed by this Chamber for decades on a bipartisan basis. They 
would establish clear and consistent standards for early voting across 
the country and make it easier for voters to access absentee ballots. 
They would protect election workers from unlawful intimidation. We are 
seeing so much of that now. It is disgraceful--disgraceful. They would 
end the toxic practice of partisan gerrymandering, and they would take 
new steps to fight the power of dark money corroding our elections. 
Senate Democrats repeatedly tried, over the last year, to bring 
Republicans to the table to debate these issues.
  I will remind my colleagues that this is not the old Republican 
Party. I would remind the American people how dramatically the 
Republican Party has regressed. The Republican Party used to be one 
that supported voting rights. Presidents Reagan, George H. W. Bush, and 
George W. Bush worked to renew voting rights bills.
  No, sadly, unfortunately, this is Donald Trump's Republican Party. 
And it is the one now trying to take away the vote from younger Black 
and Brown, elderly, minority, and low-income voters.
  And yet every time we try to engage our Senate Republican colleagues, 
they resist it. So we have no choice. We are moving ahead on our own.
  Once again, no one denies the path ahead is an uphill struggle. 
Republicans have been clear, they will entertain no bipartisan 
compromise on voting rights, but long odds are no excuse for this 
Chamber to avoid this important issue.
  Again, Members of this Chamber were elected to debate and to vote. We 
are going to vote. We are all going to go on the record. And 
Republicans will have to choose which side they stand on--protecting 
democracy or offering their implicit endorsement of Donald Trump's Big 
Lie.
  For months, Senate Republicans have come up with excuses and 
subterfuges to avoid doing what they know is the right thing, just like 
so many others have come up with similar lame excuses and subterfuges 
in the past. But as history shows, doing the right thing will 
eventually prevail. Justice will flow like mighty waters, as the 
Prophet Amos has said.
  The direction of voting rights in America is enough to have shaken 
the faith of even the most optimistic champion of America--of 
democracy. Sometimes it seems like for each step forward, the country 
takes two steps back, but fights like this are not unusual in American 
history.
  The story of our country has been a long, arduous march toward 
expanding the promise of freedom for all Americans. We find ourselves 
in such a struggle today.
  Dr. King had simple, powerful advice for his followers during moments 
like this: Keep moving. Keep fighting. The road to justice is often 
painful and full of setback, but we must keep moving. We must keep 
moving, he said, against every obstacle and prodigious hilltop and 
mountain of opposition. Let nothing slow you down. And even after you 
cross the Red Sea only to find yourself in the desert, just keep moving 
forward through the wilderness. ``And if you will do that with 
dignity,'' he said, ``when the history books are written in the future, 
the historians will have to look back and say, `There lived a great 
people.'''
  We will keep fighting in the same spirit to protect our democracy in 
this day and age. And if we do that, I have faith that one day the 
history books will likewise look back at this generation of Americans 
and conclude, ``There lived a great people,'' too.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Lujan). The Senator from Vermont.


                   Congregation Beth Israel Shooting

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I applaud the remarks of our distinguished 
majority leader, and I know it comes from the heart because what he is 
saying publicly, he has also always said both publicly and privately. 
And I also join with him in the condemnation of the attack on the 
synagogue this weekend.
  I know, in my State of Vermont, the faith community--the Jewish, 
Protestant, Catholic--all came together with prayers for the safety of 
the people in the synagogue. But more than just the safety of what 
happened then, let us pray, all of us, whatever faith we have, that 
such attacks do not continue in our country.
  We have seen too many attacks against people based on their religion 
or based on their race or based on their country of origin. That is 
wrong.
  In this country, in this country, especially--I was thinking of this 
when I led the Senate this morning in the Pledge of Allegiance, and I 
thought, ``[O]ne nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and 
justice for all.'' Well, it is a constant battle to make sure that we 
have liberty and justice for all, and we have to do that.

                          ____________________


Administration of Joseph R. Biden, Jr., 2022



Statement on the Bureau of Labor Statistics Report on the Employment Situation in June
July 8, 2022



Today we learned that our private sector has recovered all of the jobs lost during the pandemic, and added jobs on top of that. This has been the fastest and strongest jobs recovery in American history, and it would not have been possible without the decisive action my administration took last year to fix a broken COVID response and pass the American Rescue Plan to get our economy back on track.

In the second quarter of this year, we created more jobs than in any quarter under any of my predecessors in the nearly 40 years before the pandemic. We have more Americans working in the private sector today than any day during Donald Trump's Presidency, more people than any time in our history.

The historic strength of our job market is one reason our economy is uniquely well positioned to tackle a range of global economic challenges, from global inflation to the economic fallout from Putin's war. No country is better positioned than America to bring down inflation, without giving up all of the economic gains we have made over the last 18 months.

Of course, having added a record number of new jobs, and achieved historically low levels of unemployment, additional job growth from this strong position will be slower. That is not a bad thing, because our economy should move to stable growth for the years ahead.

The best way to achieve that goal is for Congress to pass legislation that lowers costs for familiesfrom prescription drugs to utility costswhile reducing the Federal budget deficit, in addition to passing the bipartisan innovation act.



NOTE: The statement referred to President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia; and S. 1260.



Categories: Statements by the President : Employment situation in June, Bureau of Labor Statistics report.

Names: Putin, Vladimir Vladimirovich; Trump, Donald J.

Subjects: Budget, Federal : Deficit and national debt; Diseases : Coronavirus, domestic prevention efforts; Economy, national : Inflation; Economy, national : Strengthening efforts; Employment and unemployment : Job creation and growth; Labor, Department of : Bureau of Labor Statistics; Legislation, proposed : United States Innovation and Competition Act of 2021; Russia : President; Russia : Ukraine, airstrikes and invasion; Ukraine : Russian airstrikes and invasion.

DCPD Number: DCPD202200594.



1
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 160 (Tuesday, October 4, 2022)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E1019]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





RECOGNITION OF WILLIAM EMMONS AND HIS SERVICE TO THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON 
                             THE JUDICIARY

                                 ______
                                 

                          HON. JERROLD NADLER

                              of new york

                    in the house of representatives

                        Tuesday, October 4, 2022

  Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I rise, along with Representative Steve 
Cohen, Chair of the Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights, and 
Civil Liberties, to thank William Emmons for his service to the 
Committee on the Judiciary.
  Will received his bachelor's degree from The College of William and 
Mary and began his career in public policy as a Legislative Intern for 
Representative Suzanne Bonamici. Will first joined the Judiciary 
Committee as an intern in 2018 and he returned in 2019 as Professional 
Staff Member for the Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights, 
and Civil Liberties.
  Will's work was essential to the success of much of the Constitution 
subcommittee's activities, including its 13 hearings on voting rights, 
two field hearings where he handled almost all of the logistical 
matters regarding transporting equipment and setting up hearing 
locations, and a number of other high-profile hearings like the one 
marking the 100th anniversary of the Tulsa race riots.
  Will assisted considerably with respect to helping various counsels 
involved in the first impeachment of Donald Trump and he also 
contributed substantive work product on important and politically 
sensitive matters, most notably with respect to researching the 
background on our hearing on Congressional authority over member 
conduct and discipline.
  Through it all, in demanding and stressful situations, he proved to 
be a smart, dedicated staffer who worked very hard on many critical but 
often unseen tasks with conscientiousness, grace, and good humor.
  For nearly four years, I have been fortunate to count Will among my 
staff. I, and the American people, have greatly benefited from his 
passion for public policy, his dedication to service, and his 
commitment to excellence. No doubt he will be successful in his future 
endeavors and an asset to his future colleagues.
  While we are sad to see Will go and he will certainly be missed, we 
are happy that he will continue to serve the public interest in his new 
non-profit role in New York.
  We thank William Emmons for his service to the Committee and wish him 
the best of luck with this new chapter.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 46 (Tuesday, March 15, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1182-S1183]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           U.S. SUPREME COURT

  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I rise again to discuss the scheme 
that has captured and now controls America's Supreme Court.
  If you have been following this series of speeches, you know that we 
have gone over the Powell memo and the plan it laid out for the 
corporate rightwing. We have gone over the technique of Agency capture, 
regulatory capture, that has been applied to the Supreme Court. We have 
gone over the turnstile, that big anonymous rightwing donor setup 
within the Federalist Society to approve Republican nominees and the 
dark money front groups that sped those nominees through Senate 
confirmation. And we have discussed how the big rightwing donor 
interests influence Justices while they are on the Bench, through fast 
lanes for dark money litigation and flotillas--flotillas--of dark money 
amici curiae, front group amici.
  Well, if you set up a machine like that, you will pretty soon see 
Justices auditioning for the role. To understand the origins of this 
auditioning, you need to start with a little bit of history.
  It is 1990, and President George H. W. Bush needs to fill a vacancy 
left by the legendary Justice William Brennan. President Bush appoints 
a recent First Circuit nominee named David Souter, who had spent most 
of his career in New Hampshire State government.
  At the time, Republicans thought Souter's short time on the Federal 
bench was an asset. Without a long paper trail, there was less chance 
that Souter's nomination would go down in flames, like Robert Bork's 
had.
  But Souter wasn't the conservative the rightwing hoped for. Indeed, 
he could be down-right moderate. In their disappointment, they adopted 
a new mantra: ``No More Souters.''
  When rumors got around that George W. Bush might nominate his White 
House Counsel, Alberto Gonzales, to the Court, he was not seen as 
rightwing enough, and the scheme panicked and the mantra became ``Al 
Gonzales is Spanish for `David Souter.' ''
  John Paul Stevens was another rightwing disappointment. So ``No More 
Souters'' as a mantra was joined by ``No More Stevenses.''
  With these disappointments, the rightwing donors and their Federalist 
Society accolades vowed to better groom and vet future candidates, 
scouring Republican nominees' records for maximum adherence to scheme 
orthodoxy.
  Well, once that process was up and operating, the response was 
predictable. Ambitious rightwing lawyers aspiring to the Federal Bench 
aren't dumb. They will follow the path that guides them to their goal. 
So the maximum adherence auditioning began. I have described the 
circuit court judge who observed his colleagues taking cases and 
issuing rulings that seemed to have the clear intent of sending a 
signal. They strained to write decisions that were dressed to impress. 
They were, in his word, ``auditioning''--auditioning for the Federalist 
Society gatekeepers.
  So how exactly does this auditioning work? There is a recipe:
  One, you have got to understand what matters to the big donors: guns, 
unbridled campaign spending, corporate political power, shrinking the 
so-called administrative state, and rightwing social issues.
  Two, fly solo. It can actually help if you go it alone. Write 
opinions so extreme that they stand out and donors take notice.
  And, three, of course, where you can, deliver the goods. If a case 
allows you to score a win for a big donor interest, take it.
  Three Justices who knew this recipe well were the trio nominated by 
Donald Trump.
  As a circuit court judge, Neil Gorsuch became a darling of the 
rightwing donor elites for his commitment

[[Page S1183]]

to dismantling this so-called administrative state. To do that, he 
deployed radical legal theories cooked up and propagated in the 
scheme's legal theory hothouse, where they developed schemes, kind of 
reverse-engineering them to give victories in cases.
  In one instance, Gorsuch even wrote two opinions for the same case: 
one, the majority opinion that his colleagues joined; and the other, an 
out-there solo opinion displaying his scheme bona fides.
  Gorsuch also displayed his fervor for what he called religious 
freedom, which usually translates to dismantling the separation between 
church and State, which is another scheme favorite.
  Justice Amy Coney Barrett knew how to audition too. In one case, 
Barrett's Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals declined to hear a challenge 
to an Indiana law on women's right to choose. Barrett bucked the 
majority to stakeout an eyebrow-raising position on the right, joining 
a dissent aimed directly at Supreme Court abortion precedent.
  On guns, Judge Barrett authored an opinion in a Second Amendment case 
called Kanter v. Barr that would have given a felon back his gun 
because his felony wasn't violent. Constitutional scholars' jaws hit 
the floor at that one.
  Adam Winkler, a Second Amendment expert at UCLA Law School, told the 
New Yorker that the opinion was ``Amy Coney Barrett's audition tape for 
the Supreme Court.'' And it was her audition tape because her ``view of 
the Second Amendment [was] outside of the mainstream'' and ``would 
appeal . . . to the Federalist Society.''
  Of course, the biggest auditioner of all was Brett Kavanaugh. On the 
DC Circuit, Kavanaugh did so much auditioning it is hard to know where 
to begin. He issued opinions on abortion, on guns, on the 
administrative state, on campaign finance, and more. He was not 
concerned with building consensus. He wanted to make a point.
  Here is Washington Post editor Ruth Marcus in her book on Kavanaugh:

       His more liberal appeals court colleagues found him affable 
     but unyielding. He would engage but rarely, if ever, change 
     his mind, [and he] displayed a propensity for filing separate 
     concurrences and dissents, actions that some colleagues took 
     as judicial grandstanding and, more to the point, an effort 
     to position himself for a Supreme Court seat.

  Auditioning--in fact, Kavanaugh dissented more each year on the bench 
than any of his DC Circuit colleagues, whether Republican or Democratic 
appointees.
  Kavanaugh made clear that he would be on the team if on the Court. 
Kavanaugh pumped up the ``major questions'' doctrine--one of the 
hothouse legal theories pushed by the far right. It says that courts 
should ignore an Agency's authority to solve a problem if the court 
thinks the problem is too big. Big regulated companies love having 
regulatory Agencies hobbled. So this was catnip for scheme donors.
  The majority in that case panned Kavanaugh's ``major questions'' 
idea, which hadn't even been raised by the parties, but Kavanaugh 
wasn't out to win votes from his colleagues, and he wasn't out to do 
justice in that case. He was firing an auditioning flare for scheme 
operatives and donors to see from miles around.
  Like Barrett, Kavanaugh did his own publicity. He spoke at 52--count 
them, 52--Federalist Society events over his career. You almost 
couldn't keep him out. And he wasn't the only one seeking an audience 
with the Federalist Society donor elite. After Trump's election, 9 of 
the 21 people on Trump's short list spoke at a 3-day Federalist Society 
panel dedicated to remembering Justice Scalia, and almost all the 
others were hanging out, mingling in the crowd. It was a judicial 
beauty pageant, with some real beauties.
  Kavanaugh had a little problem. He wasn't on Trump's first list of 
potential Supreme Court picks, and he wasn't on the second list either. 
But all that eager auditioning got him onto the third list, and the 
rest is history.
  I am not alone in noting all this auditioning. Here is how one writer 
for Slate paraphrased former U.S. District Judge Nancy Gertner about 
scheme auditioning:
  [C]onservative judges auditioning for SCOTUS--
  Supreme Court of the United States--

       go all out proving their Federalist Society bona fides: 
     Gorsuch used his judicial opinions on the appeals court to 
     advertise himself as an enemy of the administrative state and 
     a diehard proponent of religious freedom; Kavanaugh flaunted 
     his support of the unitary executive and hostility to 
     reproductive rights to earn a spot on President Donald 
     Trump's short list; Amy Coney Barrett brandished her Second 
     Amendment maximalism.

  As the Slate writers note:

       The conservative legal movement rewards this kind of 
     flagrantly ideological auditioning. Republicans demand 
     evidence that their justices will aggressively overturn 
     precedent and laws that conflict with their political goals.

  As I said earlier, ``no more Souters,'' ``no more Stevenses.''
  That is the auditioning by these sitting Justices.
  I will close my remarks with an example of what happens when you 
haven't auditioned for the scheme.
  When Justice Sandra Day O'Connor announced her retirement, George W. 
Bush wanted to replace her with his friend and loyal White House 
Counsel, Harriet Miers. Miers was a dyed-in-the-wool conservative. She 
had served Bush and his inner circle faithfully. But she wasn't a 
Federalist Society insider. She didn't have a record of auditioning for 
the big donors behind the Federalist Society's turnstile. She couldn't 
soothe those rightwing donors that she was ``no Souter,'' ``no 
Stevens.'' Her sin wasn't anything in particular; she just wasn't part 
of the club.
  As Supreme Court scholar Amanda Hollis-Brusky put it:

       The message Leonard [Leo] and others had sent was: If you 
     want to rise through the ranks, we need to know you. And 
     that's what they were all saying about Miers--``We don't know 
     her. She is not one of us.''

  Leonard Leo, by the way, is sort of the spider at the center of the 
web of donor interests that drive the turnstile at the Federalist 
Society during Republican Presidencies.
  We are now embarking on the confirmation process of someone who has 
not auditioned to donor elites for a seat on the U.S. Supreme Court. No 
dark money machine guided her selection. That is refreshing.
  Still, the auditioning continues on the right for the next time a 
Republican President holds office. Scheme donors expect standout 
candidates who wear their commitment to their donor welfare on their 
sleeves. Watch closely for more. To be continued.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Ohio.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 3 (Wednesday, January 5, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S34-S35]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                      Vote on Witkowsky Nomination

  Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the rollcall 
vote be announced.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Witkowsky 
nomination?
  Mr. BLUNT. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the Senator from California, (Mrs. 
Feinstein), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator 
from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from Washington (Mrs. 
Murray), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Ossoff), the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Sanders), and the Senator from Arizona (Ms. Sinema) are 
necessarily absent.
  Mr. THUNE. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the Senator 
from South Carolina (Mr. Graham), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. 
Inhofe), the Senator from Alaskas (Ms. Murkowski), the Senator from 
Ohio (Mr. Portman), the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch), and the Senator 
from Florida (Mr. Rubio).
  THE PRESIDIDING OFFICER (Ms. Baldwin). Are there any other Senators 
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 61, nays 26, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 2 Ex.]

                                YEAS--61

     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Blunt
     Booker
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Collins
     Coons
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cramer
     Crapo
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Fischer
     Gillibrand
     Grassley
     Hassan
     Heinrich
     Hickenlooper
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Kaine
     Kelly
     King
     Leahy
     Lujan
     Manchin
     Markey
     McConnell
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Padilla
     Peters
     Reed
     Romney
     Rosen
     Rounds
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Shaheen
     Smith
     Stabenow
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warnock
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Wyden
     Young

                                NAYS--26

     Barrasso
     Blackburn
     Boozman
     Braun
     Cassidy
     Cotton
     Cruz
     Daines
     Ernst
     Hagerty
     Hawley
     Hyde-Smith
     Johnson
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     Lummis
     Marshall
     Moran
     Paul
     Sasse
     Scott (FL)
     Scott (SC)
     Shelby
     Sullivan
     Tuberville

                             NOT VOTING--13

     Feinstein
     Graham
     Inhofe
     Klobuchar
     Menendez
     Murkowski
     Murray
     Ossoff
     Portman
     Risch
     Rubio
     Sanders
     Sinema
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to 
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table, and the 
President will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.
  The senior Senator from Delaware.


                        Anniversary of January 6

  Mr. CARPER. Madam President, 1 year ago tomorrow, a violent mob 
attacked our Capitol--this Capitol. Five Americans died, and hundreds 
sustained injuries in what has been described as the worst attack on 
our Capitol since the War of 1812 and the worst attack on our 
democracy, literally, since the Civil War. The mob assaulted and maimed 
police officers, desecrated our beacon of democracy, and in using 
force, sought to obstruct the peaceful transfer of power in this 
Nation.
  One year later, as we recall the chaos and the bloodshed of that day, 
more than ever, I am convinced that we must fully understand what 
happened and make sure that it never happens again.
  The 2020 election was hard fought, but it was not especially close. 
Not one example of widespread fraud was found nor was any evidence 
presented that would have altered the outcome. Let's take a moment and 
look at the facts.
  There were 81.2 million votes for Joe Biden last year--81.2 million. 
There were 74.2 million votes cast for Donald Trump--74.2. That is 
about 51.3 percent of the vote for Joe Biden and 46.8 percent of the 
vote for Donald Trump; 306 electoral votes for Joe Biden, 232 electoral 
votes for Donald Trump.
  Ironically, Joe Biden earned the same number of electoral college 
votes as Donald Trump did in 2016. Why is that relevant? Well, in 2016, 
Donald Trump declared that his 232 electoral votes was a--no, his 306 
electoral votes. Joe Biden got the same number of votes in 2020 as 
Donald Trump did in 2016. When Trump won with 306 electoral votes, he 
said it was a landslide. When Biden wins by the same number of 
electoral votes, Donald Trump says: No, it is not a landslide; it is a 
theft. You have stolen the election.
  Despite these facts, Donald Trump pressed ahead with legal challenges 
in several States. Many of these claims were downright bizarre, and 
many were unfounded. More than 60 Federal and State courts, involving 
more than 90 judges, many of whom were nominated by Republican 
Presidents, including Donald Trump, all agreed that no evidence of 
widespread fraud, wrongdoing or other irregularities were uncovered 
subsequent to the 2020 election--none. Allow me to quote one of them.
  Judge Bibas is a longtime member of the conservative Federalist 
Society, whom Donald Trump actually nominated to the Third Circuit 
Court of Appeals. In ruling against Donald Trump's baseless claims of 
fraud in Pennsylvania, Judge Bibas said: ``Calling an election unfair 
does not make it so.'' Let me repeat that. ``Calling an election unfair 
does not make it so.''
  Rather than accept defeat at the ballot box and in the courtroom, the 
former President embraced conspiracy theories and outright lies. The 
January 6 insurrection occurred because these lies--and let me repeat: 
lies--were a call to action for White supremacists and other domestic 
extremists.
  As someone who grew up in Danville, VA, the last capital of the 
confederacy, I have seen Confederate flags before--a lot of them--but I 
never expected to see any of them in this Capitol or in this Chamber.
  On January 6, the former President incited a mob at the National 
Mall, and he sent them to attack this Capitol. He lit a match, fanned 
the flames of violence, and did nothing to extinguish the fire. He was 
deservedly impeached for the second time for this heinous offense 
against our Constitution, which he was sworn to defend.
  One year later, I am standing in this sacred Chamber, thanks in large 
part to the heroism of countless officers from the U.S. Capitol Police 
and the DC Metropolitan Police Departments. Over 150 police officers 
were injured that day--over 150. Tragically, five police officers have 
subsequently lost their lives in connection to the January 6 attack, 
including, tragically, four by suicide.
  Many of the officers who defended our Capitol will carry the wounds 
of that day, both physical and mental, with them for years to come. In 
response, we must remain committed to their health and safety for years 
to come. They showed remarkable courage that day. They risked their 
lives--an unyielding to commitment to the oath that they took to 
protect our Constitution and this Capitol.

[[Page S35]]

  One of those officers was Officer Eugene Goodman. Officer Goodman is 
a U.S. Army veteran who was raised right here in the District of 
Columbia, not far from where we are gathered. He saw combat in the Iraq 
war, fighting with the 101st Airborne Division, until he returned home 
and signed up to serve with the Capitol Police in 2009.
  He had shown valor in uniform previously--that was in a war zone--and 
I am certain that Officer Goodman never imagined that he would be 
called on to fight a battle to defend our Constitution in the U.S. 
Capitol, not far from his own backyard. Just outside these doors, 
Officer Goodman distracted the mob and helped to save 100 U.S. Senators 
and many of our staff members from harm, as well as Members of the 
House of Representatives and their staff too.
  The brave men and women of law enforcement, like Officer Goodman, put 
their lives on the line that day to protect not just the Members of 
Congress inside the House and Senate Chambers but our very 
Constitution.
  Ultimately, the insurrectionists and the former President failed to 
overturn the election because Democrats, Republicans, and a Republican 
Vice President, Michael Pence, returned to the House and Senate 
Chambers. After order was restored, we did not accept mob rule; 
instead, we certified the votes of millions of Americans because that 
is what our democracy and our allegiance to it demanded of us.
  We have learned a lot over the past year that puts that day into 
better context. There is still much to learn. But January 6 was far 
from a random event. It was a premeditated, coordinated, and, in the 
end, violent effort to overturn an election. In other countries, we 
would call this an attempted coup.
  One year later, I am alarmed and appalled by the attempts to rewrite 
the history of January 6 as a peaceful protest. These conspiracy 
theories and lies continue to fuel the same misinformation and hatred 
that led to January 6.
  Colleagues, we need to lead by our example. We must choose truth over 
the Big Lie. We must choose the Constitution over the mob. We must 
choose the rule of law and mutual respect for one another over hatred 
and division.
  Thomas Jefferson once said--this is a paraphrase, but something along 
these lines--he said: If the people know the truth, they won't make a 
mistake.
  I love that. If the people know the truth, they won't make a mistake.
  Well, we returned that day to this very Chamber to certify the votes 
of millions of Americans because we wanted the American people to know 
the truth: Joe Biden and Kamala Harris won the 2020 election fair and 
square. We must now make sure that every American knows the unvarnished 
truth related to January 6.
  Over the past several years, I have mentioned time and again the 
wisdom of the Framers of our Constitution. In the hot summer of 1787, 
they gathered and debated a new form of government, a constitutional 
republic with an intricate system of checks and balances. Little did 
they know that that document, first ratified by Delaware, would become 
the longest running experiment in democracy that the world has ever 
known.
  I have sworn an oath no fewer than 12 times to protect the 
Constitution of our country: first as a 17-year-old Navy ROTC 
midshipman at Ohio State; 4 years later when I was commissioned as an 
ensign in the Navy to become a naval flight officer during the Vietnam 
war; again as I relinquished my regular commission and assumed a 
Reserve commission; and then another, gosh, eight times as a House 
Member and here as a Senator. We have a sacred obligation to protect 
our Constitution from enemies both foreign and domestic.
  In his second inaugural address at the end of the Civil War, 
President Lincoln addressed a deeply divided nation. All told, more 
than 600,000 Americans would die in the bloodiest conflict in our 
Nation's history. Still, President Lincoln called on the Nation to come 
together, to bind up our wounds, and to begin to heal. I believe that 
these words, which were etched inside the Lincoln Memorial just a few 
miles from where we gather today, can guide our Nation in this moment.
  Colleagues, in order to truly bind up our wounds related to January 6 
and heal a deeply divided nation, we must continue seeking the truth 
and holding those responsible to account. More than 700 individuals 
have already been charged with crimes related to the attack on our 
Capitol.
  Moreover, the bipartisan House Select Committee must finish its 
important work that it has begun and provide us with the facts of that 
day and the days that preceded it. Armed with those facts, many of us 
who serve in this Congress must make sure that the American people know 
the truth and that everyone responsible for the plotting, for the 
planning, and for the execution of an attempt to overturn an election 
in the United States of America is held accountable to the fullest 
extent of the law. Our democracy demands no less.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor at this time to my colleague from Texas.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The senior Senator from Texas.

[House Hearing, 117 Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



 
                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

=======================================================================


                                HEARING

                               before the

                          SELECT COMMITTEE TO
                      INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH
                             ATTACK ON THE
                         UNITED STATES CAPITOL

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               __________

                             JUNE 28, 2022

                               __________

                            Serial No. 117-7

                               __________

Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
                6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                                     



[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]


                                     

        Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov

                               __________
                               
                               
              U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE 
49-354 PDF          WASHINGTON : 2022 
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               

 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE UNITED
 
                             STATES CAPITOL

               Bennie G. Thompson, Mississippi, Chairman
                    Liz Cheney, Wyoming, Vice Chair
                        Zoe Lofgren, California
                       Adam B. Schiff, California
                        Pete Aguilar, California
                      Stephanie N. Murphy, Florida
                         Jamie Raskin, Maryland
                       Elaine G. Luria, Virginia
                        Adam Kinzinger, Illinois
                            COMMITTEE STAFF

                    David B. Buckley, Staff Director
      Kristin L. Amerling, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
               Hope Goins, Senior Counsel to the Chairman
           Joseph B. Maher, Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair
             Timothy J. Heaphy, Chief Investigative Counsel
                      Jamie Fleet, Senior Advisor
               Timothy R. Mulvey, Communications Director
           Candyce Phoenix, Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor
 John F. Wood, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice 
                                 Chair

Katherine B. Abrams, Staff                Thomas E. Joscelyn, Senior
    Associate                              Professional Staff Member
Temidayo Aganga-Williams, Senior           Rebecca L. Knooihuizen, Financial 
    Investigative Counsel                       Investigator
Alejandra Apecechea, Investigative         Casey E. Lucier, Investigative 
    Counsel                                       Counsel
Lisa A. Bianco, Director of Member         Damon M. Marx, Professional Staff 
    Services and Security Manager                   Member
Jerome P. Bjelopera, Investigator          Evan B. Mauldin, Chief Clerk
Bryan Bonner, Investigative Counsel        Yonatan L. Moskowitz, Senior 
Richard R. Bruno, Senior                           Counsel
    Administrative Assistant               Hannah G. Muldavin, Deputy 
Marcus Childress, Investigative             Communications Director
    Counsel                                Jonathan D. Murray, Professional 
John Marcus Clark, Security                      Staff Member
    Director                               Jacob A. Nelson, Professional 
Jacqueline N. Colvett, Digital                     Staff Member
    Director                               Elizabeth Obrand, Staff Associate
Heather I. Connelly, Professional          Raymond O'Mara, Director of 
    Staff Member                              External Affairs
Meghan E. Conroy, Investigator             Elyes Ouechtati, Technology 
Heather L. Crowell, Printer                       Partner
    Proofreader                            Robin M. Peguero, Investigative 
William C. Danvers, Senior                          Counsel
    Researcher                             Sandeep A. Prasanna, Investigative 
Soumyalatha Dayananda, Senior                        Counsel
    Investigative Counsel                  Barry Pump, Parliamentarian
Stephen W. DeVine, Senior Counsel          Sean M. Quinn, Investigative 
Lawrence J. Eagleburger,                            Counsel
    Professional Staff Member              Brittany M. J. Record, Senior 
Kevin S. Elliker, Investigative                      Counsel
    Counsel                                Denver Riggleman, Senior Technical 
Margaret E. Emamzadeh, Staff                         Advisor
    Associate                             Joshua D. Roselman, Investigative 
Sadallah A. Farah, Professional                      Counsel
    Staff Member                          James N. Sasso, Senior 
Daniel A. George, Senior                  Investigative Counsel
    Investigative Counsel                 Grant H. Saunders, Professional 
Jacob H. Glick, Investigative                     Staff Member
    Counsel                               Samantha O. Stiles, Chief 
Aaron S. Greene, Clerk                    Administrative Officer
Marc S. Harris, Senior                    Sean P. Tonolli, Senior 
    Investigative Counsel                 Investigative Counsel
Alice K. Hayes, Clerk                     David A. Weinberg, Senior 
Quincy T. Henderson, Staff                Professional Staff Member
    Assistant                             Amanda S. Wick, Senior 
Jenna Hopkins, Professional Staff         Investigative Counsel
    Member                                Darrin L. Williams, Jr., Staff 
Camisha L. Johnson, Professional                Assistant
    Staff Member                          Zachary S. Wood, Clerk
                                         
     
                                         
                               CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS      
       
                             Rawaa Alobaidi
                             Melinda Arons
                              Steve Baker
                            Elizabeth Bisbee
                              David Canady
                             John Coughlin
                             Aaron Dietzen
                              Gina Ferrise
                           Angel Goldsborough
                             James Goldston
                              Polly Grube
                          L. Christine Healey
                             Danny Holladay
                              Percy Howard
                              Dean Jackson
                           Stephanie J. Jones
                              Hyatt Mamoun
                               Mary Marsh
                               Todd Mason
                              Ryan Mayers
                              Jeff McBride
                               Fred Muram
                             Alex Newhouse
                              John Norton
                             Orlando Pinder
                               Owen Pratt
                              Dan Pryzgoda
                              Brian Sasser
                            William Scherer
                              Driss Sekkat
                              Chris Stuart
                            Preston Sullivan
                              Brian Young

                           Innovative Driven
                           
                            C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page

                               Statements

The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee 
  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
  Capitol........................................................     1
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to 
  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol     2

                                Witness

Ms. Cassidy Hutchinson, Former Special Assistant to the President 
  and Aide to the Chief of Staff.................................     3


                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

                              ----------                              


                         Tuesday, June 28, 2022

                     U.S. House of Representatives,
 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
                                 the United States Capitol,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 1:01 p.m., in 
room 390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson 
[Chairman of the Committee] presiding.
    Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger.
    Chairman Thompson. The Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in 
order.
    Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the 
Committee in recess at any point.
    Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 10, the 
Chair announces the Committee's approval to release the 
deposition material presented during this hearing.
    Good afternoon. In our hearings over the previous weeks, 
the Select Committee has laid out the details of a multi-part 
pressure campaign driven by the former President aimed at 
overturning the results of the 2020 Presidential election and 
blocking the transfer of power. We have shown that this effort 
was based on a lie, a lie that the election was stolen, tainted 
by wide-spread fraud. Donald Trump's Big Lie.
    In the weeks ahead, the Committee will hold additional 
hearings about how Donald Trump summoned a mob of his 
supporters to Washington, spurred them to march on the Capitol, 
and failed to take meaningful action to quell the violence as 
it was unfolding on January 6th.
    However, in recent days, the Select Committee has obtained 
new information dealing with what was going on in the White 
House on January 6th and in the days prior, specific detailed 
information about what the former President and his top aides 
were doing and saying in those critical hours, first-hand 
details of what transpired in the Office of the White House 
Chief of Staff, just steps from the Oval Office, as the threats 
of violence became clear, and indeed violence ultimately 
descended on the Capitol in the attack on American democracy.
    It is important that the American people hear that 
information immediately. That is why, in consultation with the 
Vice Chair, I have recalled the Committee for today's hearing.
    As you have seen and heard in our earlier hearings, the 
Select Committee has developed a massive body of evidence, 
thanks to the many hundreds of witnesses who have voluntarily 
provided information relevant to our investigation. It hasn't 
always been easy to get that information because the same 
people who drove the former President's pressure campaign to 
overturn the election are now trying to cover up the truth 
about January 6th.
    But, thanks to the courage of certain individuals, the 
truth won't be buried; the American people won't be left in the 
dark.
    Our witness today, Ms. Cassidy Hutchinson, has embodied 
that courage.
    I won't get into a lot of detail about what Ms. 
Hutchinson's testimony will show. I will allow her words to 
speak for themselves. I hope everyone at home will listen very 
closely.
    First, I will recognize our distinguished Vice Chair, Ms. 
Cheney of Wyoming, for any opening statements she would care to 
offer.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    In our first five hearings, the Committee has heard from a 
significant number of Republicans, including former Trump 
administration Justice Department officials, Trump campaign 
officials, several members of President Trump's White House 
staff, a prominent conservative judge, and several others.
    Today's witness, Ms. Cassidy Hutchinson, is another 
Republican and another former member of President Trump's White 
House staff.
    Certain of us in the House of Representatives recall that 
Ms. Hutchinson once worked for House Republican Whip Steve 
Scalise. But she is also a familiar face on Capitol Hill 
because she held a prominent role in the White House 
Legislative Affairs Office and later was the principal aide to 
President Trump's chief of staff, Mark Meadows.
    Ms. Hutchinson has spent considerable time up here on 
Capitol Hill representing the Trump administration, and we 
welcome her back.
    Up until now, our hearings have each been organized to 
address specific elements of President Trump's plan to overturn 
the 2020 election. Today, we are departing somewhat from that 
model because Ms. Hutchinson's testimony touches on several 
important and cross-cutting topics, topics that are relevant to 
each of our future hearings.
    In her role working for the White House chief of staff, Ms. 
Hutchinson handled a vast number of sensitive issues. She 
worked in the West Wing, several steps down the hall from the 
Oval Office. Ms. Hutchinson spoke daily with Members of 
Congress, with high-ranking officials in the administration, 
with senior White House staff, including Mr. Meadows, with 
White House counsel lawyers, and with Mr. Tony Ornato, who 
served as the White House Deputy Chief of Staff. She also 
worked on a daily basis with members of the Secret Service who 
were posted in the White House. In short, Ms. Hutchinson was in 
a position to know a great deal about the happenings in the 
Trump White House.
    Ms. Hutchinson has already sat for four videotaped 
interviews with Committee investigators, and we thank her very 
much for her cooperation and for her courage. We will cover 
certain but not all relevant topics within Ms. Hutchinson's 
knowledge today. Again, our future hearings will supply greater 
detail, putting the testimony today in a broader and more 
complete context.
    Today, you will hear Ms. Hutchinson relate certain first-
hand observations of President Trump's conduct on January 6th. 
You will also hear new information regarding the actions and 
statements of Mr. Trump's senior advisors that day, including 
his chief of staff, Mark Meadows, and his White House counsel. 
We will begin to examine evidence bearing on what President 
Trump and members of the White House staff knew about the 
prospect for violence on January 6th, even before that violence 
began.
    To best communicate the information the Committee has 
gathered, we will follow the practice of our recent hearings, 
playing videotaped testimony from Ms. Hutchinson and others and 
also posing questions to Ms. Hutchinson live.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you very much.
    Our witness today is Ms. Cassidy Hutchinson, who served in 
the Trump administration in the White House Office of 
Legislative Affairs from 2019 to 2020 and as a special 
assistant to the President in the White House Chief of Staff's 
Office from March 2020 through January 2021.
    I will now swear in our witness.
    The witness will please stand and raise her right hand.
    [Witness sworn.]
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you. You may be seated.
    Let the record reflect the witness answered in the 
affirmative.
    I now recognize myself for questions.
    Ms. Hutchinson, I would like to start with a few questions 
about your background. These are some photographs we have 
obtained highlighting your career.
    These show you with Members of Congress, including Steve 
Scalise, as well as the White House with Leader Kevin McCarthy 
and Jim Jordan. Others show you with the President and Members 
of Congress aboard Air Force One.
    Before you worked in the White House, you worked on Capitol 
Hill for Representative Steve Scalise, the Republican Whip, and 
Senator Ted Cruz. Then, in 2019, you moved to the White House 
and served there until the end of the Trump administration in 
2020.
    When you started at the White House, you served in the 
Office of Legislative Affairs. We understand that you were 
initially hired as a staff assistant but were soon promoted to 
a position of greater responsibility. Can you explain your role 
for the Committee?
    Ms. Hutchinson. When I moved over to the White House Chief 
of Staff's Office with Mr. Meadows, when he became the fourth 
chief of staff, it is difficult to describe a typical day. I 
was a special assistant to the President and an advisor to the 
chief of staff. The days depended on what the President was 
doing that day, and that is kind-of how my portfolio was 
reflected.
    I had a lot of outreach with Members of Congress, senior 
Cabinet officials. We would work--I would work on policy issues 
with relevant internal components and Members on the Hill, as 
well as security protocol at the White House complex for Mr. 
Meadows and the President.
    Chairman Thompson. Then you received another promotion in 
March 2020. At that time, you became the principal aide to the 
new White House chief of staff, Mark Meadows. Is that right?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is correct, sir.
    Chairman Thompson. What did a typical day look like for you 
in your work with Mr. Meadows?
    Ms. Hutchinson. It varied with what was going on. We spent 
a lot of time on the Hill. I spent time on the Hill 
independently too, as I was his liaison for Capitol Hill. We 
did a lot of Presidential travel engagements, but mostly I was 
there to serve what the chief of staff needed, and a lot of 
times what the chief of staff needed was a reflection of what 
the President's schedule was detailed to do that day.
    Chairman Thompson. So is it fair to say that you spoke 
regularly in your position both with Members of Congress and 
with senior members of the Trump administration?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is correct. That is a fair assessment, 
sir.
    Chairman Thompson. Would you say that, in your work with 
Mr. Meadows, you were typically in contact with him and others 
in the White House throughout the day?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is correct, sir. Mr. Meadows and I 
were in contact almost pretty much throughout every day 
consistently.
    Chairman Thompson. Although so much of grave importance 
happens in the West Wing of the White House, it is quite a 
small building.
    Above me on the screen, you can see a map of the first 
floor of the West Wing of the White House. On the right, you 
can see the President's Oval Office; on the left, the chief of 
staff's office suite. Within the chief of staff's office suite, 
in the heart of the West Wing, was your desk, which was between 
the Vice President's office, Mr. Kushner's office, and the Oval 
Office.
    Ms. Hutchinson, is this an accurate depiction of where you 
were located?
    Ms. Hutchinson. It is accurate. It is a lot smaller than it 
looks.
    Chairman Thompson. Absolutely.
    Ms. Hutchinson, this is a photo that shows the short 
distance between your office and the President's Oval Office. 
It only takes 5 to 10 seconds or so to walk down the hall from 
your office to the Oval Office. Is that right?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is correct.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you.
    Pursuant to section 5(c)(8) of House Resolution 503, the 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for 
questions.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Chairman, we will begin today with an exchange that 
first provided Ms. Hutchinson a tangible sense of the on-going 
planning for the events of January 6th.
    On January 2nd, 4 days before the attack on our Capitol, 
President Trump's lead lawyer, Mr. Giuliani, was meeting with 
White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows and others.
    Ms. Hutchinson, do you remember Mr. Giuliani meeting with 
Mr. Meadows on January 2, 2021?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I do. He met with Mr. Meadows in the 
evening of January 2, 2021.
    Vice Chair Cheney. We understand that you walked Mr. 
Giuliani out of the White House that night, and he talked to 
you about January 6th. What do you remember him saying?
    Ms. Hutchinson. As Mr. Giuliani and I were walking to his 
vehicle that evening, he looked at me and said something to the 
effect of: ``Cass, are you excited for the 6th? It is going to 
be a great day.''
    I remember looking at him, saying: ``Rudy, would you 
explain what is happening on the 6th?''
    He responded something to the effect of: ``We are going to 
the Capitol. It is going to be great. The President's going to 
be there. He is going to look powerful. He is going to be with 
the Members. He is going to be with the Senators. Talk to the 
chief about it. Talk to the chief about it. He knows about 
it.''
    Vice Chair Cheney. Did you go back then up to the West Wing 
and tell Mr. Meadows about your conversation with Mr. Giuliani?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I did. After Mr. Giuliani had left the 
campus that evening, I went back up to our office, and I found 
Mr. Meadows in his office on the couch. He was scrolling 
through his phone. I remember leaning against the doorway and 
saying: ``I had an interesting conversation with Rudy, Mark. It 
sounds like we are going to go to the Capitol.''
    He didn't look up from his phone and said something to the 
effect of: ``There is a lot going on, Cass, but I don't know; 
things might get real, real bad on January 6th.''
    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, Mr. Meadows is engaged 
in litigation with the Committee to try to avoid testifying 
here. What was your reaction when he said to you ``things might 
get real, real bad''?
    Ms. Hutchinson. In the days before January 2nd, I was 
apprehensive about the 6th. I had heard general plans for a 
rally. I had heard tentative movements to potentially go to the 
Capitol.
    But, when hearing Rudy's take on January 6th and then 
Mark's response, that was the first--that evening was the first 
moment that I remember feeling scared and nervous for what 
could happen on January 6th. I had a deeper concern for what 
was happening with the planning aspects of it.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you, Ms. Hutchinson.
    Today, we are going to be focusing primarily on the events 
of January 5th and 6th at the White House.
    But, to begin and to frame the discussion, I want to talk 
about a conversation that you had with Mr. John Ratcliffe, the 
Director of National Intelligence. You had this conversation in 
December 2020.
    Mr. Ratcliffe was nominated by President Trump to oversee 
U.S. intelligence--or U.S. intelligence community. Before his 
appointment, Mr. Ratcliffe was a Republican Member of Congress.
    As you will see on this clip, Director Ratcliffe's comments 
in December 2020 were prescient.

    Ms. Hutchinson. My understanding was Mr.--Director Ratcliffe didn't 
want much to do with the post-election period. Director Ratcliffe felt 
that it wasn't something that the White House should be pursuing. He 
felt it was dangerous to the President's legacy. He had expressed to me 
that he was concerned that it could spiral out of control and 
potentially be dangerous, either for our democracy or the way that 
things were going for the 6th.
    Mr. George. When you say, ``It wasn't something the White House 
should be pursuing,'' what is the ``it''?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Trying to fight the results of the election, 
finding missing ballots, pressuring--filing lawsuits in certain States 
where there didn't seem to be significant evidence and reaching out to 
State legislatures about that. So pretty much the way that the White 
House is handling the post-election period, he felt that there could be 
dangerous repercussions in terms of precedents set for elections, for 
our democracy, for the 6th. You know, he was hoping that we would 
concede.

    Vice Chair Cheney. So, Ms. Hutchinson, now we are going to 
turn to certain information that was available before January 
4th and what the Trump administration and the President knew 
about the potential for violence before January 6th.
    On the screen, you will see an email received by Acting 
Deputy Attorney General Donoghue on January 4th from the 
National Security Division of the Department of Justice.
    Mr. Donoghue testified in our hearings last week. The email 
identifies apparent planning by those coming to Washington on 
January 6th to ``occupy Federal buildings,'' and discussions of 
``invading the Capitol Building.''
    Here is what Mr. Donoghue said to us.

    Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue. And we knew that if you 
have tens of thousands of very upset people showing up in Washington, 
DC, that there was potential for violence.

    Vice Chair Cheney. U.S. Secret Service was looking at 
similar information and watching the planned demonstrations. In 
fact, their Intelligence Division sent several emails to White 
House personnel like Deputy Chief of Staff Tony Ornato, and the 
head of the President's protective detail, Robert Engel, 
including certain materials listing events like those on the 
screen.
    The White House continued to receive updates about planned 
demonstrations, including information regarding the Proud Boys 
organizing and planning to attend events on January 6th. 
Although Ms. Hutchinson has no detailed knowledge of any 
planning involving the Proud Boys or January 6th, she did note 
this:

    Ms. Hutchinson. I recall hearing the word ``Oath Keeper'' and 
hearing the word ``Proud Boys'' closer to the planning of the January 
6th rally when Mr. Giuliani would be around.

    Vice Chair Cheney. On January 3rd, the Capitol Police 
issued a special event assessment.
    In that document, the Capitol Police noted that the Proud 
Boys and other groups plan to be in Washington, DC, on January 
6th and indicated that, ``Unlike previous post-election 
protests, the targets of the pro-Trump supporters are not 
necessarily the counter protesters as they were previously, but 
rather Congress itself is the target on the 6th.''
    Of course, we all know now that the Proud Boys showed up on 
January 6th, marched from the Washington Monument to the 
Capitol that day, and led the riotous mob to invade and occupy 
our Capitol.
    Ms. Hutchinson, I want to play you a clip of one of our 
meetings when you described the call on January 4th that you 
received from National Security Advisor Robert O'Brien on the 
same topic: Potential violence on January 6th.

    Ms. Hutchinson. I received a call from Robert O'Brien, the National 
Security Advisor. He had asked if he could speak with Mr. Meadows about 
potential violent--words of violence that he was hearing that were 
potentially going to happen on the Hill on January 6th. I had asked if 
he connected with Tony Ornato because Tony Ornato had a conversation 
with him--with Mark about that topic. Robert had said, ``I will talk to 
Tony,'' and then, you know, I don't know if Robert ever connected with 
Mark about the issue.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, can you describe for us 
Mr. Ornato's responsibilities as deputy chief of staff?
    Ms. Hutchinson. The deputy chief of staff's position at the 
White House for operations is arguably one of the most 
important positions that somebody can hold. They are in charge 
of all security protocol for the campus and all Presidential 
protectees, primarily, the President and the First Family, but 
anything that requires security for any individual that has 
Presidential protection. So, the chief of staff or the National 
Security Advisor, as well as the Vice President's team too, 
Tony would oversee all of that. He was the conduit for security 
protocol between White House staff and United States Secret 
Service.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you.
    You also described a brief meeting between Mr. Ornato and 
Mr. Meadows on the potential for violence. The meeting was on 
January 4th. They were talking about the potential for violence 
on January 6th. Let's listen to a clip of that testimony.

    Ms. Hutchinson. I remember Mr. Ornato had talked to him about 
intelligence reports. I just remember Mr. Ornato coming in and saying 
that we had intel reports saying that there could potentially be 
violence on the--on the 6th.

    Vice Chair Cheney. You also told us about reports of 
violence and weapons that the Secret Service were receiving on 
the night of January 5th and throughout the day on January 6th. 
Is that correct?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is correct.
    Vice Chair Cheney. There are reports that police in 
Washington, DC, had arrested several people with firearms or 
ammunition following a separate pro-Trump rally in Freedom 
Plaza on the evening of January 5th. Are those some of the 
reports that you recall hearing about?
    Ms. Hutchinson. They are.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Of course, the world now knows that the 
people who attacked the Capitol on January 6th had many 
different types of weapons.
    When a President speaks, the Secret Service typically 
requires those attending to pass through metal detectors, known 
as magnetometers or mags for short. The Select Committee has 
learned that people who willingly entered the enclosed area for 
President Trump's speech were screened so they could attend the 
rally at the Ellipse. They had weapons and other items that 
were confiscated: Pepper spray, knives, brass knuckles, tasers, 
body armor, gas masks, batons, blunt weapons. Those were just 
from the people who chose to go through the security for the 
President's event on the Ellipse, not the several thousand 
members of the crowd who refused to go through the mags and 
watched from the lawn near the Washington Monument.
    The Select Committee has learned about reports from outside 
the magnetometers and has obtained police radio transmissions 
identifying individuals with firearms, including AR-15s, near 
the Ellipse on the morning of January 6th. Let's listen.

    MPD Radio Transmission. There's an individual who's entering, gonna 
be a white male, about 6 feet tall, thin build, brown cowboy boots. 
He's got blue jeans and a blue jean jacket, and underneath the blue 
jean jacket, complainants both saw stock of an AR-15. He's gonna be 
with a group of individuals--about five to eight--five to eight other 
individuals. Two of the individuals in that group at the base of the 
tree near the porta potties were wearing green fatigues--green olive 
dress-style fatigues, about 5'8'', 5'9'', skinny--skinny White males, 
brown cowboy boots. They had Glock-style pistols in their waistbands.
    MPD Radio Transmission. 8736 with a message. That subject's weapon 
on his right hip--that's a negative. He's in the tree.
    MPD Radio Transmission. Motor 1, make sure PPD knows they have an 
elevated threat in the trees south side of Constitution Avenue. Look 
for the ``Don't Tread On Me'' flag, American flag facemask, cowboy 
boots, weapon on the right--right side hip.
    MPD Radio Transmission. I've got three men walking down the street 
in fatigues carrying AR-15. Copy at 14th and Independence.

    Vice Chair Cheney. AR-15s at 14th and Independence. As you 
saw in those emails, the first report that we showed we now 
know was sent in the 8 o'clock hour on January 6th. This talked 
about people in the crowd wearing ballistic helmets and body 
armor, carrying radio equipment and military-grade backpacks.
    The second report we showed you on the screen was sent by 
the Secret Service in the 11 a.m. hour, and it addressed 
reports of a man with a rifle near the Ellipse.
    Ms. Hutchinson, in prior testimony, you described for us a 
meeting in the White House around 10 a.m. in the morning of 
January 6th, involving Chief of Staff Meadows and Tony Ornato. 
Were you in that meeting?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I was.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Let's listen to your testimony about 
that meeting, and then we will have some questions.

    Mr. George. I think the last time we talked you mentioned that some 
of the weapons that people had at the rally included flag poles--
oversized sticks or flag poles, bear spray. Is there anything else that 
you recall hearing about the people who had gathered [inaudible]?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I recall Tony and I having a conversation with Mark 
probably around 10 a.m., 10:15 a.m., where I remember Tony mentioning 
knives, guns in the form of pistols and rifles, bear spray, body armor, 
spears, and flag poles. Spears were one item. Flag poles were one item. 
But then Tony had relayed to me something to the effect of ``and 
these''--``I think people are fastening spears on to the ends of flag 
poles.''

    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, here's a clip of your 
testimony regarding Mr. Meadows's response to learning that the 
rally attendees were armed that day.

    Vice Chair Cheney. What was Mark's reaction--Mr. Meadows' reaction 
to this list of weapons that people had in the crowd?
    Ms. Hutchinson. When Tony and I went in to talk to Mark that 
morning, Mark was sitting on his couch on his phone, which is something 
typical. I remember Tony just got right into it, like, ``Sir, I just 
want to let you know,'' and informed him, like, ``This is how many 
people we have outside the mags right now. These are the weapons that 
we are known to have.'' It's possible he listed more weapons off that I 
just don't recall and gave him a brief, but inconcise, explanation but 
also fairly--fairly thorough. And I remember distinctly Mark not 
looking up from his phone. All right. I remember Tony finishing his 
explanation and it taking a few seconds for Mark to say something, to 
the point I almost said, ``Mark, did you hear him?'' And then Mark 
chimed in and was, like, ``All right. Anything else?'' still looking 
down at his phone. And Tony looked at me and I looked at Tony, and Tony 
said, ``No, sir. Do you have any questions?'' He was, like, ``What are 
you hearing?'' And I looked at Tony, and I was, like, ``Sir, he just 
told you about what was happening down at the rally.'' And then he was, 
like, ``Yeah, yeah, I know.'' And then he looked up and said, ``Have 
you talked to the President?'' And Tony said, ``Yes, sir. He is aware, 
too.'' And then he said, ``All right. Good.''
    Vice Chair Cheney. He asked Tony if Tony had informed the 
President?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Yes.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And Tony said, yes, he had?

    Vice Chair Cheney. So, Ms. Hutchinson, is it your 
understanding that Mr. Ornato told the President about weapons 
at the rally on the morning of January 6th?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is what Mr. Ornato relayed to me.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Here's how you characterized Mr. 
Meadows's general response when people raised concerns about 
what could happen on January 6th.

    Mr. George. So, at the time in the days leading up to the 6th, 
there were lots of public reports about how things might go bad on the 
6th, even the potential for violence. If I'm hearing you correctly, 
what stands out to you is that Mr. Meadows did not share those concerns 
or at least didn't act on those concerns?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Did not act on those concerns would be accurate.
    Mr. George. But other people raised them to him? Like, in this 
exchange, you mention that Mr. Ornato pulled him aside.
    Ms. Hutchinson. That's correct.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, we are going to show now 
an exchange of texts between you and Deputy Chief of Staff 
Ornato.
    These text messages were exchanged while you were at the 
Ellipse. In one text, you write: ``But the crowd looks good 
from that vantage point. As long as we get the shot. He was 
F'ing furious.''
    The text messages also stress that President Trump kept 
mentioning the OTR, an off-the-record movement. We are going to 
come back and ask you about that in a minute.
    But could you tell us, first of all, who it is in the text 
who was furious?
    Ms. Hutchinson. The ``he'' in that text that I was 
referring to was the President.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Why was he furious, Ms. Hutchinson?
    Ms. Hutchinson. He was furious because he wanted the arena 
that we had on the Ellipse to be maxed out at capacity for all 
attendees. The advance team had relayed to him that the mags 
were free flowing. Everybody who had wanted to come in had 
already come in, but he still was angry about the extra space 
and wanted more people to come in.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Did you go to the rally in the 
Presidential motorcade?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I was there, yes, in the motorcade.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Were you backstage with the President 
and other members of his staff and family?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I was.
    Vice Chair Cheney. You told us, Ms. Hutchinson, about 
particular comments that you heard while you were in the tent 
area.

    Ms. Hutchinson. When we were in the off-stage announce area tent 
behind the stage, he was very concerned about the shot, meaning the 
photograph that we would get because the rally space wasn't full. One 
of the reasons, which I've previously stated, was because he wanted it 
to be full and for people to not feel excluded because they had come 
far to watch him at the rally, and he felt the mags were at fault for 
not letting everybody in. But another leading reason, and likely the 
primary reason, is because he wanted it full, and he was angry that we 
weren't letting people through the mags with weapons--what the Secret 
Service deems as weapons and are--are weapons.
    Ms. Hutchinson. But when we were in the off-stage announce tent, I 
was part of a conversation--I was in the vicinity of a conversation 
where I overheard the President say something to the effect of, ``You 
know, I don't F'ing care that they have weapons. They're not here to 
hurt me. Take the F'ing mags away. Let my people in. They can march to 
the Capitol from here. Let the people in. Take the F'ing mags away.''

    Vice Chair Cheney. Just to be clear, Ms. Hutchinson, is it 
your understanding that the President wanted to take the mags 
away and said that the armed individuals were not there to hurt 
him?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That's a fair assessment.
    Vice Chair Cheney. The issue wasn't with the amount of 
space available in the official rally area only but, instead, 
that people did not want to have to go through the mags.
    Let's listen to a portion of what you told us about that.

    Ms. Hutchinson. In this particular instance, it wasn't the capacity 
of our space. It was the mags and the people that didn't want to come 
through, and that's what Tony had been trying to relay to him that 
morning: ``You know, it's not the issues that we encounter on the 
campaign. We have enough space, sir. They don't want to come in right 
now. They have weapons they don't want confiscated by the Secret 
Service, and they're fine on the Mall. They can see you on the Mall, 
and they want to march straight to the Capitol from the Mall.''

    Vice Chair Cheney. The President apparently wanted all 
attendees inside the official rally space and repeatedly said, 
``They are not here to hurt me.''

    Vice Chair Cheney. And--and just to be clear, so he was told again 
in--in that conversation--or was he told again in that conversation 
that people couldn't come through the mags because they had weapons?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Correct.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And that people--and his response was to say, 
``They can march to the Capitol from--from the Ellipse?''
    Ms. Hutchinson. Something to the effect of ``take the F'ing mags 
away. They're not here to hurt me. Let them in. Let my people in. They 
can march to the Capitol after the rally is over. They can march from--
they can march from the Ellipse. Take the F'ing mags away. Then they 
can march to the Capitol.''

    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, what we saw when those 
clips were playing were photos provided by the National 
Archives showing the President in the offstage tent before his 
speech on the Ellipse. You were in some of those photos as 
well. I just want to confirm that that is when you heard the 
President say the people with weapons weren't there to hurt him 
and that he wanted the Secret Service to remove the 
magnetometers.
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is correct. In the photos that you 
displayed, we were standing toward the front of the tent with 
the TVs really close to where he would walk out to go onto the 
stage. These conversations happened 2 to 3 minutes before he 
took the stage that morning.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Let's reflect on that for moment. 
President Trump was aware that a number of the individuals in 
the crowd had weapons and were wearing body armor. Here is what 
President Trump instructed the crowd to do.

    President Trump. We're gonna walk down--and I'll be there with you. 
We're gonna walk down--we're gonna walk down--anyone you want but I 
think right here--we're gonna walk down to the Capitol.

    Vice Chair Cheney. The crowd, as we know, did proceed to 
the Capitol. It soon became apparent to the Secret Service, 
including the Secret Service teams in the crowd, along with 
White House staff that security at the Capitol would not be 
sufficient.

    Ms. Hutchinson. I'd had two or three phone conversations with Mr. 
Ornato when we were at the Ellipse, and then I had four men on Mr. 
Meadows' detail with me in between those individuals and then a few 
other bodies on the ground, just Secret Service doing advance. They 
were getting notifications through their radios, and Mr. Ornato in one 
phone conversation had called me and said, ``Make sure the chief knows 
that they are getting close to the Capitol. They are having trouble 
stacking bodies.''

    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, when you said they were 
having trouble stacking bodies, did you mean that law 
enforcement at the Capitol needed more people to defend the 
Capitol from the rioters?
    Ms. Hutchinson. It was becoming clear to us and to the 
Secret Service that Capitol Police officers were getting 
overrun at the security barricades outside of the Capitol 
Building, and they were having short--they were short people to 
defend the building against the rioters.
    Vice Chair Cheney. You mentioned that Mr. Ornato was 
conveying this to you because he wanted you to tell Mr. 
Meadows. So did you tell Mr. Meadows that people were getting 
closer to the Capitol and that Capitol Police was having 
difficulty?
    Ms. Hutchinson. After I had the conversation with Mr. 
Meadows, Mr.--after I had the conversation with Ornato, I went 
to have the discussion with Mr. Meadows. He was in a secure 
vehicle at the time making a call. So, when I had gone over to 
the car, I went to open the door to let him know; he had 
immediately shut it. I don't know who he was speaking with. It 
wasn't something that he regularly did, especially when I would 
go over to give him information. So I was a bit taken aback, 
but I didn't think much of it and thinking that I was--I would 
be able to have the conversation with him a few moments later.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Were you able to have that conversation 
a few moments later?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Probably about 20 to 25 minutes later. 
There was another period in between where he shut the door 
again. Then, when he finally got out of the vehicle, we had the 
conversation. But, at that point, there was a backlog of 
information that he should have been made aware of.
    Vice Chair Cheney. So you opened the door to the control 
car, and Mr. Meadows pulled it shut?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is correct.
    Vice Chair Cheney. He did that two times.
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is correct.
    Vice Chair Cheney. When you finally were able to give Mr. 
Meadows the information about the violence at the Capitol, what 
was his reaction?
    Ms. Hutchinson. He almost had a lack of reaction. I 
remember him saying ``all right,'' something to the effect of: 
How much longer does the President have left in his speech?
    Vice Chair Cheney. Again, much of this information about 
the potential for violence was known or learned about the onset 
of the violence, early enough for President Trump to take steps 
to prevent it. He could, for example, have urged the crowd at 
the Ellipse not to march to the Capitol. He could have 
condemned the violence immediately once it began, or he could 
have taken multiple other steps.
    But, as we will see today and in later hearings, President 
Trump had something else in mind.
    One other question at this point, Ms. Hutchinson. Were you 
aware of concerns that White House Counsel Pat Cipollone or 
Eric Herschmann had about the language President Trump used in 
his Ellipse speech?
    Ms. Hutchinson. There were many discussions the morning of 
the 6th about the rhetoric of the speech that day. In my 
conversations with Mr. Herschmann, he had relayed that we would 
be foolish to include language that had been included at the 
President's request, which had lines along to the effect of: 
Fight for Trump. We are going to march to the Capitol. I will 
be there with you. Fight for me. Fight for what we are doing. 
Fight for the movement.
    Things about Vice President at the time too.
    Both Mr. Herschmann and the White House Counsel's Office 
were urging the speechwriters to not include that language for 
legal concerns and also for the optics of what it could portray 
the President wanting to do that day.
    Vice Chair Cheney. We just heard the President say that he 
would be with his supporters as they marched to the Capitol. 
Even though he did not end up going, he certainly wanted to.
    Some have questioned whether President Trump genuinely 
planned to come here to the Capitol on January 6th. In his 
book, Mark Meadows falsely wrote that, after President gave his 
speech on January 6th, he told Mr. Meadows that he was 
``speaking metaphorically about the walk to the Capitol.''
    As you will see, Donald Trump was not speaking 
metaphorically.
    As we heard earlier, Rudy Giuliani told Ms. Hutchinson that 
Mr. Trump planned to travel to the Capitol on January 6th. I 
want to pause for just a moment to ask you, Ms. Hutchinson, to 
explain some of the terminology you will hear today. We have 
heard you use two different terms to describe plans for the 
President's movement to the Capitol or anywhere else. One of 
those is a ``scheduled movement'' and another one is ``OTR.'' 
Could you describe for us what each of those mean?
    Ms. Hutchinson. A scheduled Presidential movement is on his 
official schedule. It is notified to the press and to a wide 
range of staff that will be traveling with him. It is known to 
the public, known to the Secret Service, and they are able to 
coordinate the movement days in advance.
    An off-the-record movement is confined to the knowledge of 
a very, very small group of advisors and staff. Typically, a 
very small group of staff would travel with him, mostly that 
are just included in the National Security package. You can 
pull an off-the-record movement together in less than an hour. 
It is a way to kind-of circumvent having to release it to the 
press, if that is the goal of it, or to not have to have as 
many security parameters put in place ahead of time to make the 
moment happen.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you.
    Let's turn back now to the President's plans to travel to 
the Capitol on January 6th. We know that White House Counsel 
Pat Cipollone was concerned about the legal implications of 
such a trip, and he agreed with the Secret Service that it 
shouldn't happen.
    Ms. Hutchinson, did you have any conversations with Pat 
Cipollone about his concerns about the President going to the 
Capitol on January 6th?
    Ms. Hutchinson. On January 3rd, Mr. Cipollone had 
approached me, knowing that Mark had raised the prospect of 
going up to the Capitol on January 6th. Mr. Cipollone and I had 
a brief private conversation where he said to me: ``We need to 
make sure that this doesn't happen. This would be legally a 
terrible idea for us. We have serious legal concerns if we go 
up to the Capitol that day.''
    He then urged me to continue relaying that to Mr. Meadows, 
because it is my understanding that Mr. Cipollone thought that 
Mr. Meadows was indeed pushing this along with the President.
    Vice Chair Cheney. We understand, Ms. Hutchinson, that you 
also spoke to Mr. Cipollone on the morning of the 6th, as you 
were about to go to the rally on the Ellipse. Mr. Cipollone 
said something to you like: ``Make sure the movement to the 
Capitol does not happen.''
    Is that correct?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is correct. I saw Mr. Cipollone right 
before I walked out onto West Exec that morning, and Mr. 
Cipollone said something to the effect of: ``Please make sure 
we don't go up to the Capitol, Cassidy. Keep in touch with me. 
We are going to get charged with every crime imaginable if we 
make that movement happen.''
    Vice Chair Cheney. Do you remember which crimes Mr. 
Cipollone was concerned with?
    Ms. Hutchinson. In the days leading up to the 6th, we had 
conversations about potentially obstructing justice or 
defrauding the electoral count.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Let's hear about some of those concerns 
that you mentioned earlier in one of your interviews with us.

    Ms. Hutchinson. Having a private conversation with Pat late in the 
afternoon of the 3rd or 4th, that Pat was concerned it would look like 
we were obstructing justice or obstructing the electoral college 
count--and I apologize for probably not being very----
    Vice Chair Cheney. That's fine.
    Ms. Hutchinson [continuing]. Clear with my legal terms here--but 
that it would look like we were obstructing what was happening on 
Capitol Hill, and he was also worried that it would look like we were 
inciting a riot or encouraging a riot to erupt on the Capitol--at the 
Capitol.

    Vice Chair Cheney. In fact, in the days before January 6th 
and on January 6th itself, President Trump expressed to 
multiple White House aides that he wanted to go to the Capitol 
after his speech.
    Here is what various White House aides have told the 
Committee about the President's desire to go to the Capitol.

    Mr. George. Did the President tell you this, that he wanted to 
speak at the Capitol?
    Mr. Luna. Correct. Yes.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Tonolli. During the meeting in the dining room, did the idea of 
the President proceeding or walking to the Capitol on the 6th after his 
speech come up?
    Mr. Max Miller. Walking to the Capitol? No.
    Mr. Tonolli. Driving to the Capitol?
    Mr. Max Miller. It came up.
    Mr. Tonolli. OK. How did it come up and what was discussed?
    Mr. Max Miller. He brought it up. He said, ``I want to go down to 
the Capitol.''
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. George. What about him marching to the Capitol on the 6th?
    Mr. Luna. Yes.
    Mr. George. Tell us about that.
    Mr. Luna. So it's kind-of a general thing. I mean, to get into the 
specifics of it, I--I was aware of a desire of the President to 
potentially march to the--or--or accompany the rally attendees to the 
Capitol.
    Mr. George. When did you first hear about this idea of the 
President accompanying rally attendees to the Capitol on the 6th?
    Mr. Luna. This was at the 6th. This was during the--after he 
finished his remarks.

    Vice Chair Cheney. When the President said that he would be 
going to the Capitol during his speech on the Ellipse, the 
Secret Service scrambled to find a way for him to go. We know 
this from witnesses and the Secret Service, also from messages 
among staff on the President's National Security Council. The 
NSC staff were monitoring the situation in real time. You can 
see how the situation evolved in the following chat log that 
the Committee has obtained.
    As you can see, NSC staff believed that MOGUL--the 
President--was ``going to the Capitol,'' and ``they are finding 
the best route now.''
    From these chats, we also know the staff learned of the 
attack on the Capitol in real time. When President Trump left 
the Ellipse stage at 1:10, the staff knew that rioters had 
invaded the inaugural stage and Capitol Police were calling for 
all available officers to respond.
    When Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy heard the President 
say he was going to the Capitol, he called you, Ms. Hutchinson. 
Isn't that right?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is correct.
    Vice Chair Cheney. In this text message, you told Tony 
Ornato, ``McCarthy just called me too,'' and ``Do you guys 
think you are coming to my office?''
    Tell us about the call that day with Leader McCarthy during 
the President's speech on the Ellipse.
    Ms. Hutchinson. I was still in the tent behind the stage. 
When you are behind the stage, you can't really hear what is 
going on in front of you. So, when Mr. McCarthy called me with 
this information, I answered the call, and he sounded rushed 
but also frustrated and angry at me. I was confused because I 
didn't know what the President had just said.
    He then explained: ``The President just said he is marching 
to the Capitol. You told me this whole week you aren't coming 
up here. Why would you lie to me?''
    I said: ``I am not lying. I wasn't lying to you, sir. I--we 
are not going to the Capitol.''
    He said: ``Well, he just said it on stage, Cassidy. Figure 
it out. Don't come up here.''
    I said: ``I will run the traps on this now. I will shoot 
you a text. I can assure you we are not coming up to the 
Capitol. We have already made that decision.''
    He pressed a little bit more, believing me, but I think 
frustrated that the President had said that. We ended the phone 
conversation after that.
    I called Mr. Ornato to reconfirm that we weren't going to 
the Capitol, and--which is also in our text messages. I sent 
Mr. McCarthy another text telling him the affirmative, that we 
were not going up to the Capitol, and he didn't respond after 
that.
    Vice Chair Cheney. We understand, Ms. Hutchinson, that the 
plans for the President to come to the Capitol had included 
discussions at some point about what the President would do 
when he came up to the Capitol on January 6th.
    Let's look at a clip of one of your interviews discussing 
that issue with the Committee.

    Vice Chair Cheney. When you were talking about a scheduled 
movement, did anyone say what the President wanted to do when he got 
here?
    Ms. Hutchinson. No, not that I can specifically remember. I 
remember--I remember hearing a few different ideas discussed with--
between Mark and Scott Perry, Mark and Rudy Giuliani. I don't know 
which conversations were elevated to the President. I don't know what 
he personally wanted to do when he went up to the Capitol that day. You 
know, I know that there were discussions about him having another 
speech outside of the Capitol before going in. I know that there was a 
conversation about him going into the House Chamber at one point.

    Vice Chair Cheney. As we have all just heard, in the days 
leading up to January 6th, on the day of the speech, both 
before and during and after the rally speech, President Trump 
was pushing his staff to arrange for him to come up here to the 
Capitol during the electoral vote count. Let's turn now to what 
happened in the President's vehicle when the Secret Service 
told him he would not be going to the Capitol after his speech.
    First, here is the President's motorcade leaving the 
Ellipse after his speech on January 6th.
    Ms. Hutchinson, when you returned to the White House in the 
motorcade after the President's speech, where did you go?
    Ms. Hutchinson. When I returned to the White House, I 
walked upstairs toward the chief of staff's office, and I 
noticed Mr. Ornato lingering outside of the office. Once we had 
made eye contact, he quickly waved me to go into his office, 
which was just across the hall from mine.
    When I went in, he shut the door, and I noticed Bobby 
Engel, who was the head of Mr. Trump's security detail, sitting 
in a chair looking somewhat discombobulated, a little lost.
    I looked at Tony, and he had said: ``Did you F'ing hear 
what happened in the Beast?''
    I said: ``No, Tony, I just got back. What happened?''
    Tony proceeded to tell me that, when the President got in 
the Beast, he was under the impression from Mr. Meadows that 
the off-the-record movement to the Capitol was still possible 
and likely to happen but that Bobby had more information.
    So, once the President had gotten into the vehicle with 
Bobby, he thought that they were going up to the Capitol, and 
when Bobby had relayed to him ``we are not, we don't have the 
assets to do it, it is not secure, we are going back to the 
West Wing,'' the President had very strong, a very angry 
response to that.
    Tony described him as being irate. The President said 
something to the effect of: ``I am the F'ing President. Take me 
up to the Capitol now.''
    To which Bobby responded: ``Sir, we have to go back to the 
West Wing.''
    The President reached up toward the front of the vehicle to 
grab at the steering wheel. Mr. Engel grabbed his arm and said: 
``Sir, you need to take your hand off the steering wheel. We 
are going back to the West Wing. We are not going to the 
Capitol.''
    Mr. Trump then used his free hand to lunge toward Bobby 
Engel. When Mr. Ornato had recounted the story to me, he had 
motioned toward his clavicles.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Was Mr. Engel in the room as Mr. Ornato 
told you this story?
    Ms. Hutchinson. He was.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Did Mr. Engel correct or disagree with 
any part of the story from Mr. Ornato?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Engel did not correct or disagree with 
any part of the story.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Did Mr. Engel or Mr. Ornato ever after 
that tell you that what Mr. Ornato had just said was untrue?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Neither Mr. Ornato nor Mr. Engel told me 
ever that it was untrue.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Despite this altercation, this physical 
altercation during the ride back to the White House, President 
Trump still demanded to go to the Capitol.
    Here is what Kayleigh McEnany, the White House press 
secretary at the time, wrote in her personal notes and told the 
Committee about President Trump's desire to go the Capitol 
after returning to the White House.

    Mr. Wood. When you wrote, ``POTUS wanted to walk to the Capitol,'' 
was that based solely on what the President said during his speech or 
anything that he or anybody else said afterwards?
    Ms. McEnany. So, to the best of my recollection, I believe when we 
got back to the White House he said he wanted to physically walk with 
the marchers, and according to my notes, he then said he'd be fine with 
just riding the Beast. But to the best of my recollection, he wanted to 
be a part of the march in some fashion.
    Mr. Wood. And just for the record, ``the Beast'' refers to the 
Presidential limousine?
    Ms. McEnany. Yes.

    Vice Chair Cheney. President Trump did not go to the 
Capitol that day. We understand that he blamed Mark Meadows for 
that.

    Ms. Hutchinson. So, prior to leaving the rally site when he got off 
the stage and everybody was making the movement back to the motorcade, 
I'd overheard Mr. Meadows say to him then, as I had prior to Mr. Trump 
taking the stage that morning, that he was still working on getting an 
off-the-record movement to the Capitol. So, when Mr. Trump took the 
stage, he was under the impression by Mr. Meadows that it was still 
possible. So, when he got off the stage, I had relayed to Mr. Meadows 
that I had another conversation with Tony--the movement was still not 
possible. Mr. Meadows said, ``OK.'' And then as they proceeded to go to 
the motorcade and--Mr. Meadows had reiterated, ``We're gonna work on 
it, sir. Talk to Bobby. Bobby has more information.'' Mark got into his 
vehicle. To my understanding, Trump got into the Beast, and after we 
had all arrived back at the White House later in the day, it had been 
relayed to me via Mark that the President wasn't happy that Bobby 
didn't pull it off for him and that Mark didn't work hard enough to get 
the movement on the books.

    Vice Chair Cheney. The physical altercation that Ms. 
Hutchinson described in the Presidential vehicle was not the 
first time that the President had become angry about issues 
relating to the election.
    On December 1, 2020, Attorney General Barr said in an 
interview that the Department of Justice had not found evidence 
of wide-spread election fraud sufficient to change the outcome 
of the election.
    Ms. Hutchinson, how did the President react to hearing that 
news?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Around the time that I understand the AP 
article went live, I remember hearing noise coming from down 
the hallway. So I poked my head out of the office, and I saw 
the valet walking toward our office.
    He had said: Get the chief down to the dining room. The 
President wants him.
    So, Mark went down to the dining room, came back to the 
office a few minutes later. After Mark had returned, I left the 
office and went down to the dining room, and I noticed that the 
door was propped open, and the valet was inside the dining room 
changing a tablecloth off of the dining room table. He motioned 
for me to come in and then pointed toward the front of the room 
near the fireplace mantle and the TV, where I first noticed 
there was ketchup dripping down the wall and there was a 
shattered porcelain plate on the floor.
    The valet had articulated that the President was extremely 
angry at the Attorney General's AP interview and had thrown his 
lunch against the wall, which was causing them to have to clean 
up. So, I grabbed a towel and started wiping the ketchup off 
the wall to help the valet out.
    He said something to the effect of: ``He is really ticked 
off about this. I would stay clear of him for right now. He is 
really, really ticked off about this right now.''
    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, was this the only 
instance that you are aware where the President threw dishes?
    Ms. Hutchinson. It is not.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Are there other instances in the dining 
room that you recall where he expressed his anger?
    Ms. Hutchinson. There were several times throughout my 
tenure with the chief of staff that I was aware of him either 
throwing dishes or flipping the tablecloth to let all the 
contents of the table go onto the floor, and likely break or go 
everywhere.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, Attorney General Barr 
described to the Committee the President's angry reaction when 
he finally met with President Trump. Let's listen.

    Attorney General Barr. And I said, ``Look, I know that you're 
dissatisfied with me and I'm glad to offer my resignation.'' And he 
pounded the table very hard--everyone sort-of jumped--and he said 
``Accepted.''

    Vice Chair Cheney. Mr. Chairman, I reserve.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman reserves.
    The Chair requests those in the hearing room remain seated 
until the Capitol Police have escorted our witness from the 
room.
    Pursuant to the order of the Committee of today, the Chair 
declares the Committee in recess for a period of approximately 
10 minutes.
    [Accordingly, at 2:01 p.m., the Committee recessed until 
2:15 p.m., when it was called to order by the Chairman.]
    Chairman Thompson. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from Wyoming, Vice Chair Cheney.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Before we turn to what Ms. Hutchinson saw and heard in the 
White House during the violent attack on the Capitol on January 
6th, let's discuss certain communications White House Chief of 
Staff Mark Meadows had on January 5th.
    President Trump's associate, Roger Stone, attended rallies 
during the afternoon and the evening of January 5th in 
Washington, DC.
    On January 5th and 6th, Mr. Stone was photographed with 
multiple members of the Oath Keepers who were allegedly serving 
as his security detail.
    As we now know, multiple members of that organization have 
been charged with or pled guilty to crimes associated with 
January 6th. Mr. Stone has invoked his Fifth Amendment 
privilege against self-incrimination before this Committee. 
General Michael Flynn has also taken the Fifth before this 
Committee.
    Mr. Stone previously had been convicted of other Federal 
crimes unrelated to January 6th. General Flynn had pleaded 
guilty to a felony charge also predating and unrelated to 
January 6th. President Trump pardoned General Flynn just weeks 
after the Presidential election. In July 2020, he commuted the 
sentence Roger Stone was to serve.
    The night before January 6th, President Trump instructed 
his chief of staff, Mark Meadows, to contact both Roger Stone 
and Michael Flynn regarding what would play out the next day.
    Ms. Hutchinson, is it your understanding that President 
Trump asked Mark Meadows to speak with Roger Stone and General 
Flynn on January 5th?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is correct. That is my understanding.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, is it your understanding 
that Mr. Meadows called Mr. Stone on the 5th?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I am under the impression that Mr. Meadows 
did complete both a call to Mr. Stone and General Flynn the 
evening of the 5th.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Do you know what they talked about that 
evening, Ms. Hutchinson?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I am not sure.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Is it your understanding that Mr. 
Giuliani, Mr. Eastman, and others had set up what has been 
called a ``war room'' at the Willard Hotel on the night of the 
5th?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I was aware of that the night of the 5th.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Do you know if Mr. Meadows ever intended 
to go to the Willard Hotel on the night of the 5th?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Meadows had a conversation with me 
where he wanted me to work with Secret Service on a movement 
from the White House to the Willard Hotel so we could attend 
the meeting, or meetings, with Mr. Giuliani and his associates 
in the war room.
    Vice Chair Cheney. What was your view as to whether or not 
Mr. Meadows should go to the Willard that night?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I had made it clear to Mr. Meadows that I 
didn't believe it was a smart idea for him to go to the Willard 
Hotel that night. I wasn't sure everything that was going on at 
the Willard Hotel, although I knew enough about what Mr. 
Giuliani and his associates were pushing during this period. I 
didn't think that it was something appropriate for the White 
House chief of staff to attend or to consider involvement in. I 
made that clear to Mr. Meadows.
    Throughout the afternoon, he mentioned a few more times 
going up to the Willard Hotel that evening, and then eventually 
dropped the subject the night of the 5th and said that he would 
dial in instead.
    Vice Chair Cheney. So General Flynn has appeared before 
this Committee. When he appeared before our Committee, he took 
the Fifth. Let's briefly view a clip of General Mike Flynn 
taking the Fifth Amendment.

    Vice Chair Cheney. General Flynn, do you believe the violence on 
January 6th was justified?
    Mr. Warrington. Can we have a minute?
    Vice Chair Cheney. Yes.
    [1 minute, 36 seconds later.]
    Mr. Warrington. All right. I'm back. Congresswoman Cheney, could 
you repeat the question, please?
    Vice Chair Cheney. Yes. General Flynn, do you believe the violence 
on January 6th was justified?
    Mr. Warrington. Is that--can I get a clarification. Is that a moral 
question or a legal question?
    Vice Chair Cheney. I'm asking both.
    General Flynn. I said--I said the Fifth.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Do you believe the violence on January 6th was 
justified morally?
    General Flynn. Take the Fifth.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Do you believe the violence on January 6th was 
justified legally?
    General Flynn. Fifth.
    Vice Chair Cheney. General Flynn, do you believe in the peaceful 
transition of power in the United States of America?
    General Flynn. The Fifth.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Let's move on now to January 6th and the 
conduct of Donald Trump and Mark Meadows during the attack on 
the Capitol.
    Ms. Hutchinson, I would like now for us to listen to a 
description, your description of what transpired in the West 
Wing during the attack. For context, in this clip you describe 
the time frame starting at about 2 p.m.

    Ms. Hutchinson. So I remember Mark being alone in his office for 
quite some time. And, you know, I know we've spoken about Ben 
Williamson going in at one point, and I don't personally remember Ben 
going in. I don't doubt that he had gone in. But I remember him being 
alone in his office for most of the afternoon. Around 2 o'clock to 
2:05--around 2 o'clock to 2:05, you know, we were watching the TV, and 
I could see that the rioters were getting closer and closer to the 
Capitol.
    Mark still hadn't popped out of his office or said anything about 
it. So that's when I went into his office. I saw that he was sitting on 
his couch on his cell phone, same as the morning, where he was just 
kind-of scrolling and typing. I said, ``Hey, are you watching the TV, 
chief?'' Because his TV was small and I--you can see it, but I didn't 
know if he was really paying attention.
    I said, ``You watching the TV, chief?'' He was like, ``Yeah.'' I 
said, ``The rioters are getting really close. Have you talked to the 
President?'' And he goes, ``No, he wants to be alone right now''--still 
looking at his phone.
    So I start to get frustrated because, you know, I sort-of felt like 
I was watching a--this is not a great comparison--but a bad car 
accident that was about to happen where you can't stop it but you want 
to be able to do something.
    I just remember--I remember thinking, in that moment, Mark needs to 
snap out of this, and I don't know how to snap him out of this, but 
he--he needs to care. And I just remember I blurted out and I said, 
``Mark, do you know where Jim's at right now?'' And he looked up at me 
at that point and said, ``Jim?'' And I said, ``Mark, is--he was on the 
floor a little while ago giving a floor speech. Did you listen?'' He 
said, ``Yeah, it was real good. Did you like it?'' And I said, ``Yeah. 
Do you know where he's at right now?'' He said, ``No, I haven't heard 
from him.'' And I said, ``You might want to check in with him, Mark.'' 
And I remember pointing at the TV, and I said, ``The rioters are 
getting close. They might get in.'' And he looked at me and said 
something to the effect of, ``All right. I'll--I'll give him a call.''

    Vice Chair Cheney. Not long after the rioters broke into 
the Capitol, you described what happened with White House 
Counsel Pat Cipollone.

    Ms. Hutchinson. No more than a minute, minute and a half later, I 
see Pat Cipollone barreling down the hallway toward our office, and he 
rushed right in, looked at me, said, ``Is Mark in his office?'' And I 
said, ``Yes.'' He just looked at me and started shaking his head and 
went over, opened Mark's office door, stood there with the door propped 
open, and said something to--Mark is still sitting on his phone. I 
remember, like, glancing and he's still sitting on his phone.
    And I remember Pat saying to him something to the effect of, ``The 
rioters have gotten to the Capitol, Mark. We need to go down and see 
the President now.'' And Mark looked up at him and said, ``He doesn't 
want to do anything, Pat.'' And Pat said something to the effect of--
and very clearly had said this to Mark--something to the effect of, 
``Mark, something needs to be done or people are going to die, and the 
blood is going to be on your F'ing hands. This is getting out of 
control. I'm going down there.''
    And at that point, Mark stood up from his couch, both of his phones 
in his hand. He had his glasses on still. He walked out with Pat. He 
put both of his phones on my desk and said, ``Let me know if Jim 
calls.'' And they walked out and went down to the dining room.

    Vice Chair Cheney. A few minutes later Representative 
Jordan called back.

    Ms. Hutchinson. A couple minutes later, so likely around--between 
2:15 and 2:25--I know the tweet went out at 2:24. I don't remember if I 
was there when the tweet went out or if it happened right afterwards, 
but Jim had called. I answered the phone, said, ``One second.'' He knew 
it was--I guess he knew who it was and I introduced myself, but I--I 
don't remember if he called my cell phone or if he had called one of 
Mark's. But I answered the phone and said, ``One sec. Mark's down the 
hall. I'm going to go hand the phone to him.'' And he said, ``OK.''
    So I went down. I asked the valet if Mark was in the dining room. 
The valet said, ``Yes.'' I opened the door to the dining room, briefly 
stepped in to get Mark's attention. I showed him the phone, like 
flipped the phone his way so he could see it said Jim Jordan. He had 
stepped to where I was standing there holding the door open, took the 
phone, talking to Jim with the door still propped open.
    So I took a few steps back. So I probably was two feet from Mark. 
He was standing in the doorway going into the Oval Office dining room. 
They had a brief conversation. And in the crossfires--you know, I heard 
briefly, like, what they were talking about, but in the background, I 
had heard conversations in the Oval dining room with the--at that point 
talking about the ``hang Mike Pence'' chants.

    Vice Chair Cheney. That clip ended, Ms. Hutchinson, with 
you recalling that you heard the President, Mr. Meadows, and 
the White House counsel discussing the ``Hang Mike Pence'' 
chants, and then you described for us what happened next.

    Ms. Hutchinson. It wasn't until Mark hung up the phone, handed it 
back to me, I went back to my desk. A couple of minutes later, him and 
Pat came back, possibly Eric Herschmann, too. I'm pretty sure Eric 
Herschmann was there, but I'm--I'm confident it was Pat that was there. 
I remember Pat saying something to the effect of, ``Mark, we need to do 
something more. They're literally calling for the Vice President to be 
F'ing hung.''
    And Mark had responded something to the effect of, ``You heard him, 
Pat. He thinks Mike deserves it. He doesn't think they're doing 
anything wrong,'' to which Pat said something, ``This is F'ing crazy. 
We need to be doing something more,'' briefly stepped into Mark's 
office.
    And when Mark had said something--when Mark had said something to 
the effect of ``he doesn't think they're doing anything wrong,'' 
knowing what I had heard briefly in the dining room, coupled with Pat 
discussing the ``hang Mike Pence'' chants in the lobby of our office 
and then Mark's response, I understood ``they're'' to be the rioters in 
the Capitol that were chanting for the Vice President to be hung.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Let me pause here on this point. The 
rioters chanted, ``Hang Mike Pence.''
    The President of the United States, Donald Trump, said that 
``Mike deserves it,'' and that, ``Those rioters were not doing 
anything wrong.''
    This is a sentiment that he has expressed at other times as 
well. In an interview with ABC News correspondent Jonathan 
Karl, President Trump was asked about the supporters chanting, 
``Hang Mike Pence,'' last year.
    Instead of condemning them, the former President defended 
them.

    Mr. Karl [continuing]. Saying ``hang Mike Pence.''
    President Trump. Because it's--it's common sense, Jon. It's common 
sense that you're supposed to protect--how can you--if you know a vote 
is fraudulent, right, how can you pass on a fraudulent vote to 
Congress?

    Vice Chair Cheney. President Trump's view that the rioters 
were not doing anything wrong, and that ``Mike deserved it,'' 
helps us to understand why the President did not ask the 
rioters to leave the Capitol for multiple hours. In fact, he 
put this tweet out at 
2:24 p.m.
    Ms. Hutchinson, do you recall seeing this tweet in which 
the President said the Vice President did not have the courage 
to do what needed to be done?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I do.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, what was your reaction 
when you saw this tweet?
    Ms. Hutchinson. As a staffer that works to always represent 
the administration to the best of my ability and to showcase 
the good things that he had done for the country, I remember 
feeling frustrated, disappointed. Really--it felt personal. I 
was really sad. As an American, I was disgusted.
    It was unpatriotic. It was un-American. We were watching 
the Capitol Building get defaced over a lie. It was something 
that was really hard in that moment to digest, knowing what I 
had been hearing down the hall and the conversations that were 
happening, seeing that tweet come up and knowing what was 
happening on the Hill. It is something that I--I still struggle 
to work through the emotions of that.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, we have also spoken to 
multiple other White House staff about their reaction to Donald 
Trump's 2:24 tweet, condemning Mike Pence for not having the 
courage to refuse to count electoral votes, an act that would 
have been illegal.
    Matthew Pottinger, a former Marine intelligence officer who 
served in the White House for 4 years, including as Deputy 
National Security Advisor, was in the vicinity of the Oval 
Office at various points throughout the day. When he saw that 
tweet, he immediately decided to resign his position.
    Let's watch him describe his reaction to the President's 
tweet.

    Mr. Pottinger. One of my staff brought me a printout of a tweet by 
the President, and the tweet said something to the effect that ``Mike 
Pence,'' the Vice President, ``didn't have the courage to do what'' 
he--``what should have been done.'' I--I read that tweet and made a 
decision at that moment to resign. That's where I knew that I was 
leaving that day once I read that tweet.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Ultimately, members of the White House 
staff, Sarah Matthews, Cabinet members Secretary Chao and 
Secretary DeVos resigned as well. Here is Secretary DeVos's 
resignation letter.
    As can you see, in resigning on January 6th, Secretary 
DeVos said to the President, ``There's no mistaking the impact 
your rhetoric had on the situation, and it is the inflection 
point for me.''
    Let's also look at Secretary Chao's resignation statement.
    When Secretary Chao resigned, she spoke of the January 6th 
attack. She said, ``As I am sure is the case with many of you, 
this has deeply troubled me in a way I simply cannot set 
aside.''
    Ms. Hutchinson, in our prior interviews, we have asked you 
about what the President's advisors were urging him to do 
during the attack. You have described roughly three different 
camps of thoughts inside the White House that day.
    Can you tell us about those?
    Ms. Hutchinson. There was a group of individuals that were 
strongly urging him to take immediate and swift action. I would 
classify the White House Counsel's Office, Mr. Herschmann, Ms. 
Ivanka Trump, in that category of really working to get him to 
take action and pleading with him to take action.
    There was a more neutral group where advisors were trying 
to toe the line, knowing that Mr. Trump didn't necessarily want 
to take immediate action and condemn the riots, but knowing 
something needed to be done.
    Then there was the last group which was deflect and blame. 
Let's blame Antifa. These aren't our people.
    It is my understanding that Mr. Meadows was in the deflect-
and-blame category. But he did end up taking a more neutral 
route, knowing that there were several advisors in the 
President's circle, urging him to take more action, which I 
think was reflected in the rhetoric released later that day in 
the videos.
    Vice Chair Cheney. You told us that the White House 
Counsel's Office was in the camp encouraging the President to 
tell the rioters to stop the attack and to leave the Capitol.
    Let's listen.

    Ms. Hutchinson. White House counsel's office wanted there to be a 
strong statement out to condemn the rioters. I'm confident in that.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Now let's look at just one example of 
what some senior advisors to the President were urging.
    Ms. Hutchinson, could you look at the exhibit that we are 
showing on the screen now?
    Have you seen this note before?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is a note that I wrote at the 
direction of the chief of staff on January 6th, likely around 3 
o'clock.
    Vice Chair Cheney. It's written on a chief of staff note 
card. But that is your handwriting, Ms. Hutchinson?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is my handwriting.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Why did you write this note?
    Ms. Hutchinson. The chief of staff was in a meeting with 
Eric Herschmann, potentially Mr. Philbin. They had rushed out 
of the office fairly quickly. Mark had handed me the note card 
with one of his pens, and sort-of dictating a statement for the 
President to potentially put out.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And--no. I am sorry. Go ahead.
    Ms. Hutchinson. No, that is okay.
    There were two phrases on there, one ``illegal'' and one 
``without proper authority''. The ``illegal'' phrase was the 
one that Mr. Meadows had dictated to me. Mr. Herschmann had 
chimed in and said also put ``without legal authority''. There 
should have been a slash between the two phrases. It was an 
``or,'' if the President had opted to put one of those 
statements out. Evidently, he didn't. Later that afternoon, 
Mark came back from the Oval dining room and put the palm card 
on my desk with ``illegally'' crossed out but said we didn't 
need to take further action on that statement.
    Vice Chair Cheney. So to your knowledge this statement was 
never issued.
    Ms. Hutchinson. It was--to my knowledge it was never 
issued.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, did you understand that 
Ivanka Trump wanted her father to send people home?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That is my understanding, yes.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Let's play a clip of you addressing that 
issue.

    Ms. Hutchinson. I remember her saying at various points, you know, 
she wants him--she wanted her dad to send them home. She wanted her dad 
to tell them to go home peacefully, and she wanted to include language 
that he necessarily wasn't on board with at the time.

    Vice Chair Cheney. You will hear more about this at our 
later hearings. But we have evidence of many others, imploring 
Donald Trump and Mark Meadows to take action. Here is some of 
that evidence, text messages sent to Mark Meadows during the 
attack.
    This is a text message at 2:32 from Laura Ingraham.
    ``Hey, Mark, the President needs to tell people in the 
Capitol to go home.''
    The next message: ``This is hurting all of us.''
    Then: ``He is destroying his legacy and playing into every 
stereotype. We lose all credibility against the BLM-Antifa 
crowd if things go south.''
    The President's son, Don Jr., also urgently contacted Mark 
Meadows.
    At 2:53, he wrote: ``He's got to condemn this shit ASAP. 
The Capitol Police tweet is not enough.''
    As you will see, these are just two of the numerous 
examples of Trump supporters and allies urging the President to 
tell his supporters to leave the Capitol. It would not have 
been hard for the President to simply walk down to the briefing 
room a few feet down the hall from the Oval Office, as Nora 
O'Donnell noted during an interview with House Republican 
Leader Kevin McCarthy, where Leader McCarthy said he believed 
the attack was un-American.

    Ms. O'Donnell. I want to quickly bring in Kevin McCarthy, the House 
Minority Leader. Leader McCarthy, do you condemn this violence?
    Mr. McCarthy. I completely condemn the violence in the Capitol. 
What we're currently watching unfold is un-American. I am--I'm 
disappointed. I'm sad. This is not what our country should look like. 
This is not who we are. This is not the First Amendment. This has to 
stop, and this has to stop now.
    Ms. O'Donnell. Leader McCarthy, the President of the United States 
has a briefing room steps from the Oval Office. It is--the cameras are 
hot 24/7, as you know. Why hasn't he walked down and said that now?
    Mr. McCarthy. I--I conveyed to the President what I think is best 
to do, and I'm hopeful the President will do it.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Republican House Member Mike Gallagher 
also implored the President to call off the attack.

    Mr. Gallagher. Mr. President, you have got to stop this. You are 
the only person who can call this off. Call it off. The election is 
over. Call it off. This is bigger than you. It's bigger than any Member 
of Congress. It is about the United States of America, which is more 
important than any politician. Call it off. It's over.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Despite the fact that many people close 
to Donald Trump were urging him to send people home, he did not 
do so until later, much later. At 4:17 p.m., Donald Trump 
finally told the rioters to go home, and that he loved them. 
Here is a portion of the video President Trump recorded from 
the White House.

    President Trump. We have to have peace, so go home. We love you. 
You're very special. You've seen what happens. You see the way others 
are treated that are so bad and so evil. I know how you feel, but go 
home and go home in peace.

    Vice Chair Cheney. But as we will show in even greater 
detail in future hearings, Donald Trump was reluctant to put 
this message out. He still could not bring himself to condemn 
the attack. Ms. Hutchinson has told us that, too.

    Vice Chair Cheney. The one that he put out at 4:17?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I'm sure you've discussed it and just to elaborate 
if I hadn't already at that point. I recall him being reluctant to film 
the video on the 6th. I was not involved in any of the logistics or the 
planning for that video. I just remember seeing the video go out and 
feeling a little shocked after it went out.

    Vice Chair Cheney. On the evening of January 6th and the 
day after, the President's family and his senior staff and 
others tried to encourage the President to condemn the violence 
and commit to the peaceful transition of power. At 3:31 p.m. on 
January 6th, Sean Hannity of Fox News texted Mark Meadows.
    Mr. Hannity said, ``Can he make a statement? I saw the 
tweet. Ask people to leave the Capitol.''
    Later that evening Mr. Hannity sent another text message to 
Mark Meadows. This time he shared a link to a tweet.
    That tweet reported that President Trump's Cabinet 
Secretaries were considering invoking the 25th Amendment to 
remove President Trump from office.
    As you can see on the screen, the 25th Amendment to the 
Constitution creates a process for the transition of power if a 
President is unfit or unable to serve. The 25th Amendment has 
never been used to remove a President. But the Committee has 
learned that after the attack on the U.S. Capitol, this was 
being discussed by members of President Trump's Cabinet as a 
way of stripping the full power of the Presidency from Donald 
Trump.
    President Trump's supporters were worried. In addition to 
the tweet that he sent Mark Meadows after the attack, Sean 
Hannity apparently spoke with President Trump and warned him 
about what could happen.
    We understand that this text message that Sean Hannity sent 
to Kayleigh McEnany on January 7th shows what Mr. Hannity said 
to the President. First, no more stolen election talk. Second, 
impeachment and 25th Amendment are real. Many people will quit.
    Ms. Hutchinson, you told us that you were hearing about 
discussions related to the 25th Amendment. Here is part of what 
you said.

    Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Pompeo reached out to have the conversation 
with Mr. Meadows in case he hadn't heard the discussions amongst 
Cabinet Secretaries. And from what I understand, it was more of a, 
``This is what I'm hearing. I want you to be aware of it, but I also 
think it's worth putting on your radar because you are the chief of 
staff. You're technically the boss of all the Cabinet Secretaries. And, 
you know, if the conversations progressed, you should be ready to take 
action on this. I'm concerned for you and your positioning with this. 
Reach out to me if you have any questions or, like, if I can be helpful 
with you at all.''

    Vice Chair Cheney. Inside the White House, the President's 
advisors, including members of his family, wanted him to 
deliver a speech to the country. Deputy White House Counsel Pat 
Philbin prepared the first draft of what would be the 
President's remarks on National healing delivered by a pre-
taped video on January 7th.
    When he arrived at the White House on the 7th, Mr. Philbin 
believed that more needed to be said. So, he sat down and 
started writing. He shared the draft with Pat Cipollone who 
also believed the President needed to say more. Mr. Cipollone 
agreed with the content, as did Eric Herschmann, who reviewed 
the draft. The Committee has learned that the President did not 
agree with the substance as drafted and resisted giving a 
speech at all.
    Ms. Hutchinson, do you recall discussions about the 
President's speech on January 7th?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I do.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Let's listen, Ms. Hutchinson, to what 
you told us about that and about the process of crafting those 
remarks.

    Ms. Hutchinson. I learned from a conversation with Mark and 
overhearing between him and White House Counsel and Eric Herschmann as 
well that Trump didn't necessarily think he needed to do anything more 
on the 7th than what he had already done on the 6th. When he was 
convinced to put out a video on the 7th, he--I understand that he had a 
lot of opinions about what the context of that announcement were to 
entail.
    I had original drafts of the speech where, you know, there were--
several lines didn't make it in there about prosecuting the rioters or 
calling them violent. He didn't want that in there. He wanted to put in 
there that he wanted to potentially pardon them. And this is just with 
the increased emphasis of his mindset at the time which was he didn't 
think that they did anything wrong.
    He--the people who did something wrong that day or the person who 
did something wrong that day was Mike Pence by not standing with him.

    Vice Chair Cheney. But the President's advisors urged him 
to give his speech.

    Mr. George. Who convinced him to do the video on the 7th?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not sure who convinced him or if it was a group 
of people that convinced him.
    Mr. George. Who was in the group that you're aware of?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That I'm aware of: Mark, Ivanka, Jared Kushner, 
Eric Herschmann, Pat Cipollone, Pat Philbin. Those are the people that 
I'm aware of.
    Mr. George. Do you know why that group of people thought it was 
necessary for him to release a statement?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I believe Kayleigh McEnany as well. From what I 
understood at the time and from what the reports were coming in, there 
was a large concern of the 25th Amendment potentially being invoked, 
and there were concerns about what would happen in the Senate if it 
was--if the 25th was invoked. So the primary reason that I had heard 
other than, you know, we did not do enough on the 6th, we need to get a 
stronger message out there and condemn this is--otherwise this will be 
your legacy.
    The secondary reason to that was, you know, think about what might 
happen in the final 15 days of your Presidency if we don't do this. 
There's already talks about invoking the 25th Amendment. You need this 
as cover.

    Vice Chair Cheney. The President ultimately delivered the 
remarks. Unlike many of his other speeches, he did not ad lib 
much. He recited them without significant alteration, except 
one. Even then, on January 7, 2021, the day after the attack on 
the U.S. Capitol, the President still could not bring himself 
to say, ``But this election is now over.''
    One other point about the speech, Ms. Hutchinson, did you 
hear that Mr. Trump at one point wanted to add language about 
pardoning those who took part in the January 6th riot?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I did hear that, and I understand that Mr. 
Meadows was encouraging that language as well.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you.
    Here is what you told us previously about that.

    Mr. George. You said he was instructed not to include it. Who was 
instructing him not to include language about the pardon in that 
January 7th speech?
    Ms. Hutchinson. I understood from White House counsel's office 
coming to our office that morning that they didn't think that it was a 
good idea to include that in the speech.
    Mr. George. That being Pat Cipollone?
    Ms. Hutchinson. That's correct. And Eric Herschmann.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, did Rudy Giuliani ever 
suggest that he was interested in receiving a Presidential 
pardon related to January 6th?
    Ms. Hutchinson. He did.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, did White House Chief of 
Staff Mark Meadows ever indicate that he was interested in 
receiving a Presidential pardon related to January 6th?
    Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Meadows did seek that pardon, yes, 
ma'am.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you, Ms. Hutchinson.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. I want to thank our witness for joining 
us today.
    The Members of the Select Committee may have additional 
questions for today's witness, and we ask that you respond 
expeditiously in writing to those questions.
    Without objection, Members will be permitted 10 business 
days to submit statements for the record including opening 
remarks and additional questions for the witness.
    Without objection, the Chair recognizes the Vice Chair for 
a closing statement.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    I want to begin by thanking Ms. Hutchinson for her 
testimony today. We are all in her debt. Our Nation is 
preserved by those who abide by their oaths to our 
Constitution. Our Nation is preserved by those who know the 
fundamental difference between right and wrong. I want all 
Americans to know that what Ms. Hutchinson has done today is 
not easy. The easy course is to hide from the spotlight, to 
refuse to come forward, to attempt to downplay or deny what 
happened.
    That brings me to a different topic. While our Committee 
has seen many witnesses, including many Republicans, testify 
fully and forthrightly, this has not been true of every 
witness. We have received evidence of one particular practice 
that raises significant concern. Our Committee commonly asks 
witnesses connected to Mr. Trump's administration or campaign 
whether they have been contacted by any of their former 
colleagues or anyone else who attempted to influence or impact 
their testimony.
    Without identifying any of the individuals involved, let me 
show you a couple of samples of answers we received to this 
question.
    First, here is how one witness described phone calls from 
people interested in that witness's testimony: ``What they said 
to me is, As long as I continue to be a team player, they know 
that I am on the right team. I am doing the right thing. I am 
protecting who I need to protect. You know, I will continue to 
stay in good graces in Trump World. And they have reminded me a 
couple of times that Trump does read transcripts and just keep 
that in mind as I proceed through my interviews with the 
committee.''
    Here is another sample in a different context. This is a 
call received by one of our witnesses: ``A person let me know 
you have your deposition tomorrow. He wants me to let you know 
he is thinking about you. He knows you are loyal, and you are 
going do the right thing when you go in for your deposition.''
    I think most Americans know that attempting to influence 
witnesses to testify untruthfully presents very serious 
concerns. We will be discussing these issues as a Committee 
carefully considering our next steps.
    Mr. Chairman, thank you.
    I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    Ms. Hutchinson, thank you. Thank you for doing your 
patriotic duty and helping the American people get a complete 
understanding of January 6th and its causes. Thank you for your 
courage in testifying here today. You have the gratitude of 
this Committee and your country. I know it wasn't easy to sit 
here today and answer these questions.
    But after hearing your testimony in all its candor and 
detail, I want to speak directly to the handful of witnesses 
who have been outliers in our investigation, the small number 
who have defied us outright, those whose memories have failed 
them again and again on the most important details, and to 
those who fear Donald Trump and his enablers.
    Because of this courageous woman and others like her, your 
attempt to hide the truth from the American people will fail. 
To that group of witnesses, if you have heard this testimony 
today and suddenly you remember things you couldn't previously 
recall, or there are some details you would like to clarify, or 
you discovered some courage you had hidden away somewhere, our 
doors remain open.
    The Select Committee will reconvene in the weeks ahead as 
we continue to lay out our findings to the American people.
    The Chair requests those in the hearing room remain seated 
until the Capitol Police have escorted the witness and Members 
from the room.
    Without objection, the Committee stands adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 2:55 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.]

                                 
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 157 (Wednesday, September 28, 2022)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E985]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 HONORING A CENTURY OF U.S.-ISRAEL TIES

                                 ______
                                 

                            HON. JOE WILSON

                           of south carolina

                    in the house of representatives

                     Wednesday, September 28, 2022

  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, as the Ranking Member of 
the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee, it is a pleasure to 
recognize A Century of United States and Israel Ties.
  One hundred years ago, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge (R-MA) and 
Representative Hamilton Fish (R-NY) pushed a joint resolution through 
Congress for the United States to officially acknowledge their support 
for a Jewish homeland. The House and Senate vote was unanimous, and in 
September 1922, President Warren G. Harding signed the Resolution.
  Israel is a great friend, ally, and partner to the United States in 
our shared commitment to democracy, economic development, and regional 
security. The U.S.-Israel bond is unique, as it is the foundation of 
American leadership in the Middle East. In 1948, America was the first 
country to recognize Israel as a state and in 2018, America established 
an embassy in Jerusalem. I was grateful to lead the House Delegation 
for the Embassy opening fulfilling the courageous promise of President 
Donald Trump.
  A highlight of my service in Congress was when my wife Roxanne and I 
met with former Prime Minister Netanyahu in Jerusalem and Washington. 
Mr. Netanyahu significantly contributed to the strengthening of Israeli 
security, transitioning it into an economic force, respected 
internationally. I know firsthand of his extraordinary dedication to 
the people of Israel. The Israeli people have demonstrated resiliency, 
overcoming numerous challenges and enduring the threat of terrorism, 
while continuing to remain confident in the future of their country. 
They continue to lead the way in critical sectors of healthcare, 
information technology, and defense.
  I grew up with an appreciation of the Jewish faith in Charleston, 
South Carolina, where at the time of the American Revolution was home 
of the largest Jewish population in the New World. The provincial 
constitution of South Carolina was the first constitution to recognize 
Judaism as a religion. The first Jewish elected official in America was 
to the South Carolina Provincial Assembly, and sadly it was home of the 
first Jewish American killed in the Revolution.
  The people of Israel, and Prime Minister Yair Lapid, know they have a 
true ally in America. I continue to work toward the normalization of 
our Arab partners and Israel relations to achieve a more stable, 
peaceful, and prosperous Middle East in which all people and religions 
can coexist and prosper. I am grateful for the dedicated service of 
Ambassador to the U.S., Michael Herzog.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 121 (Thursday, July 21, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3583-S3589]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      CHIPS ACT OF 2022--Continued

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The Republican leader is recognized.


                              The Economy

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, Washington Democrats' one-party 
government has actually performed an amazing feat. In 18 months, they 
have taken an economy that was ready to soar and completely derailed it 
with $2 trillion in unnecessary borrowing, printing, and spending. Now, 
9.1 percent inflation is pinching hard-working Americans every time 
they visit the gas pump or the grocery store.
  The Biden administration has tried their hardest to find a silver 
lining amid the economic storm clouds they helped create. They have 
touted the strength of consumer spending to conclude our economy is 
strong. That is what they said. Well, of course, consumer spending has 
only gone up because the price of nearly everything has increased. A 
recent economic analysis shows the American people do spend more on 
gas, groceries, furniture, and clothes than we used to, but--listen to 
this--adjusted for inflation, they are actually consuming less--paying 
more, getting less.
  Parents of school-age kids are some of the hardest hit. Four in ten 
say they won't go back-to-school shopping before the upcoming school 
year. One young mother in Nevada says she will ``pick out one or two 
shirts'' for her daughter ``and that's it.'' Inflation has made 
everything else too expensive.
  Over in Arizona, inflation forces the average household to spend over 
$9,600 more a year compared to when President Biden took office. Many 
families simply don't have that much wiggle room in their budgets and 
are resorting to desperate measures simply to stay afloat.
  One Phoenix area food bank has seen a 78-percent increase in visitors 
compared with just last year--78 percent more families who simply can't 
afford to live in this Democrat-run economy. A woman in line at the 
food bank said she had never needed to visit one before but ``the 
prices are way too high'' right now to support four children on her 
husband's salary.
  Colorado families are facing the highest inflation costs in the 
Nation, in the whole country: nearly $10,900 in extra spending per year 
compared to the beginning of the Biden administration. Not 
surprisingly, Coloradans are falling behind on paying for daily 
necessities. One pawn shop owner in the State has noticed a marked 
increase in loan seekers at his business. For most of them, they just 
need ``30 bucks, 40 bucks'' to ``pay small bills, get gas, put 
groceries on the table.''
  This is all happening in my home State of Kentucky as well. People 
are taking out loans, cutting back spending, and relying on charity 
just to cope with ever-increasing prices. But that hasn't stopped 
Washington Democrats from proposing new ways to wreck our economy. As 
we speak, they are batting around a new suite of tax hikes aimed 
squarely at the middle class. If Democrat-driven inflation hasn't 
pushed struggling families off the edge quite yet, the Democrat-driven 
recession certainly will finish the job.
  So what is on the menu? New taxes on small businesses already 
struggling with inflation, new fees and regulations on American energy 
producers that will send prices even higher at the pump, new socialist 
price control schemes to stifle healthcare innovation.
  Apparently, record inflation isn't enough to make Democrats realize 
their reckless economic agenda is a failure, an abject failure. Maybe 
tax-hike-induced stagflation will set them straight.


                                Ukraine

  Madam President, now on another matter, I had the honor, along with 
others, of greeting the First Lady of Ukraine, Olena Zelenska, who 
greeted us here in the Capitol. Like my colleagues in the room, I was 
moved by her blunt, plaintive remarks to Congress. As her country 
endures the fifth month of a brutal Russian siege, Ms. Zelenska was 
candid about the pain and suffering Russia's unprovoked war of 
aggression was causing her homeland. She said: ``Russia is destroying 
our people.''
  The First Lady conveyed the incredible determination of the Ukrainian 
people and echoed their simple request for the tools to fight their own 
fight--``Weapons,'' she said, ``to protect one's home and the right to 
wake up alive in that home.''
  I hope the First Lady's visit helped steel our colleagues' resolve as 
friends of Ukraine. Russia's invasion has already reminded the West 
that revisionist aggressors cannot be appeased. And Ukraine's brave 
resistance, equipped with the arsenal of the free world, is a further 
reminder that this is a fight they intend to win.
  The Senate should be proud of our work over the past several months 
to get more lethal capabilities into Ukrainian hands. But at every step 
of the way, the Biden administration has been a bit slow to green light 
the game-changing weapons Ukraine's frontline defenders actually need.
  I urged the President for more than a year to take specific actions 
to deter Russian aggression against Ukraine--actually, before it 
escalated. Last June, I urged him to deliver lethal capabilities to 
Ukraine and other states in Vladimir Putin's crosshairs. Instead, the 
administration slow-walked security assistance for months.
  In December, I called for U.S. military reinforcements along NATO's 
eastern flank, but the President waited until February to deploy 
forces--too late to deter Putin's aggression. And even after Russia had 
launched its unlawful invasion, the President has repeatedly deterred 
himself from providing Ukraine the capabilities it needs.
  With nearly every weapons system requested by Ukraine, the cycle in 
Washington plays out like this: first, hesitation and concern; then, 
excuses that Ukraine couldn't effectively use the proposed weapons or 
objections that providing them would escalate the conflict; then--
then--grudging willingness to transfer the weapons; and finally, with 
weapons in Ukrainian hands, self-congratulations from the Biden 
administration that they are having a positive impact on the 
battlefield. It is exhausting to watch this decision-making cycle 
repeat itself from Kentucky. It must be exacerbating to watch it from 
Kyiv.
  The need for advanced, longer-range weapons to turn back Russia's 
aggression is painfully obvious. Air defense capabilities to combat 
Russia's continuing long-range strikes against civilian populations 
across Ukraine, anti-ship weapons to combat the Russia Black Sea 
blockade and the humanitarian food crisis it is causing worldwide, and 
more capable, longer-range artillery to pound Russian positions in 
occupied Ukraine from relative safety--this will help offset any 
numerical advantage Russia has achieved by pumping so much more combat 
power into its invasion force.

[[Page S3584]]

  So here it is. Putin cannot be allowed to believe he can just wait 
for the West to become complacent. It would do a moral disservice to 
the brave Ukrainians fighting every single day for their country. But 
this is not just about Ukraine's security. If Russia achieves its 
objective in Ukraine, it will imperil our own security. And if we 
waiver--if we waiver--on Ukraine, it would certainly send an 
unmistakable signal of weakness to Beijing, which is watching the 
conflict in Ukraine very closely.
  For their part, so are our friends and allies in China's backyard. As 
Japan's Prime Minister put it back in May: ``Ukraine might be East Asia 
tomorrow.''
  Russia's brutal war has cost the people of Ukraine their homes, their 
safety, and their lives. But it has also reawakened the West to the 
reality of long-term deterrence and competition.
  It has led modern partners like Sweden and Finland to cast their lot 
with the greatest military alliance in the history of the world. And it 
has prompted current treaty allies to shake off years of neglect for 
their own defense capabilities. All of this will result in greater 
burden-sharing, interoperability, military capability, and collective 
security for the NATO alliance.
  The United States cannot afford to neglect this lesson ourselves. As 
the leader of the free world and the No. 1 target of revisionist 
adversaries like China and Russia, we have to take seriously our 
obligation to maintain America's military superiority.
  We need to act quickly and pass a defense authorization bill that 
restores our readiness, grows our stockpiles of critical munitions, 
reinforces our position along NATO's eastern flank, and lays the 
foundations for a new era of credible deterrence in Asia by modernizing 
and equipping our military for real competition with China.
  I hope the Democratic leader will let the Senate take action on this 
critical legislation without further delay.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The majority whip.


                         Highland Park Shooting

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, we have a great number of holidays each 
year in America. But is there a more perfect holiday than the Fourth of 
July? We celebrate the birth of our Nation. We gather with our families 
for picnics, a trip to the beach, backyard barbecues, take in a 
baseball game, and go to a parade. It is just the ultimate American 
celebration. We relax, pull out our American flags, gather our kids, 
and thank God that we are born in this great Nation and can call it 
home.
  But this last Fourth of July became a different scene in one part of 
my home State of Illinois. It was the first time in years that the 
people of Highland Park were able to gather together publicly. So there 
was a special celebration as they gathered at 10 in the morning for the 
Fourth of July parade.
  Oh, in addition to the usual suspects at these parades, political 
candidates, there were a lot of groups just there in pure celebration: 
high school bands, gatherings of veterans, all sorts of groups in a 
wonderful, wonderful suburban town in the Chicagoland area of Highland 
Park.
  Yesterday, we held a hearing in the Senate Judiciary Committee about 
the day of the July Fourth parade in Highland Park. I wish we didn't 
have to hold that hearing. I would rather it would have been some other 
subject, some other place. But it was the 10th hearing during this 
Congress--the 10th time--that we had held a hearing in the Judiciary 
Committee on gun violence--gun violence, the No. 1 cause of death of 
children in America. Let me repeat that: gun violence, the No. 1 cause 
of death among children in America.
  Yesterday, we focused on Highland Park and the Fourth of July parade, 
and we focused on the obvious mass shooting incident that took place. 
And we focused on military-style assault weapons.
  The Fourth of July shooting in Highland Park, IL, was the 309th mass 
shooting in America this year. What is a mass shooting? When four 
people are either injured or killed--309 times it had happened before 
July the Fourth.
  By the time of yesterday's hearing, 16 days after the Fourth of July, 
that number of 309 had grown by 47 mass shootings since the Fourth of 
July in America--16 days, 47 more mass shootings.
  Where else on Earth is this taking place? Nowhere. Right here in the 
United States of America is the only place on Earth where mass 
shootings are happening on such a frequent basis.
  In many of the deadliest shootings, the attacker used an assault 
weapon, a combat weapon--a gun specifically designed to kill the 
maximum number of people in just a few seconds; the same weapon we saw 
in Uvalde, TX, where the kids in their classrooms were killed; the same 
weapon we saw in the supermarket in Buffalo, NY, when early morning 
shoppers on a Saturday were killed; and, sadly, the same weapon that 
was used in Highland Park.

  During the Fourth of July parade in Highland Park, a deranged gunman 
perched himself on a rooftop, using a Smith & Wesson assault rifle, 
killing seven people and wounding dozens more. He shot 83 rounds in 
less than a minute. Let me say that again: 83 rounds in less than a 
minute.
  This is Aiden McCarthy. Aiden is 2 years old. His mom and dad, Kevin 
and Irina McCarthy, took him to the Fourth of July parade in Highland 
Park. I first heard about him just an hour or 2 after this terrible 
incident. I called my friend Nancy Rotering, who is the mayor of 
Highland Park, and asked her: Tell me, what can I do?
  She said: I don't know. Things are happening so fast. We actually 
found a 2-year-old toddler who was wandering on the street by himself. 
We don't know who he belongs to. His picture is being circulated in the 
community.
  The conclusion was fairly obvious. Whoever brought him to that parade 
was not able to look for him and care for him. And the story eventually 
unfolded. Kevin and Irina McCarthy brought Aiden to the parade--his 
first parade. And then when the shooting started, they shielded him 
with their bodies. In a matter of minutes, Aiden lost both of his 
parents. Fortunately, a grandparent was located, and Aiden is in safe 
hands today.
  But because of this assault weapon being fired on the crowd, he lost 
his mom and dad. That is the reality when a parent has to shield a 
child like this from a mass shooting.
  Nancy Rotering, as I mentioned earlier, is mayor of Highland Park. 
She testified yesterday about the parade. She told us that when the 
shooting started, she thought the sound of bullets was actually a drum 
cadence from the local marching band. That is how fast the bullets were 
being fired.
  When she realized there was an active shooter, she began evacuating 
the crowd. She said the adults she confronted stared back at her. They 
didn't understand what she was saying. But the children, the teenagers, 
they understood. This was a shooter; this wasn't a drill.
  Did you hear that? The children and the teens at the Highland Park 
parade instinctively knew what was happening because they had been 
trained in their schools to deal with mass shootings. That is how 
common these mass shootings have become.
  I grew up in a different era, Cold War era, where it was duck and 
cover under your desk for fear of a nuclear attack--an attack by the 
Soviet Union. These kids--our kids, our grandkids--are being schooled 
not just in the ABCs, but they are being schooled in survival, so that 
if a shooter shows up in a classroom, they know what to do to try to 
survive.
  Mayor Rotering told the Judiciary Committee:

       Our children are expected to return to school in [about] a 
     month. . . . They are frightened to go back. . . . They are 
     frightened to play outside. Many never want to go to . . . 
     parade[s] again. For the rest of their lives, they will look 
     over their shoulders, ready for another active shooter, 
     thanks to the drills our society has normalized [in our 
     classrooms].

  She continued:

       Playing outside is normal. Back to school is normal. Fear 
     of a shooter is not normal; but now in Highland Park 
     [Illinois] and so many other American communities, it is [the 
     new normal].

  It can't be said enough that mass shootings with assault weapons are 
a unique American phenomenon. They are devastating--so devastating.
  I want to show you another picture with Aiden McCarthy. This is 
Cooper Roberts, 8 years old. Cooper and his twin brother Luke went to 
the parade with their mom and dad. And in the

[[Page S3585]]

course of the shooting, he was shot, taken to the hospital immediately. 
He has gone through at least seven or eight surgeries now, touch and go 
for many days as to whether he would live. And, sadly, in addition to 
the damage that was done to his body, his spinal cord was severed by 
this same bullet.
  You see, when you fire an assault weapon at a human body, it hits 
that body at three times the ordinary velocity of any other firearm. It 
is so powerful that it was originally designed by the U.S. Army to 
achieve a single goal described to us in the committee yesterday. That 
goal was to be able to shoot one of these AR-15s and pierce a metal 
helmet worn by a soldier 500 yards away--five football fields--the AR-
15. It is not another firearm. It is a killing weapon. And, 
unfortunately, Cooper Roberts was in the line of fire. We pray that he 
recovers.
  His mom and dad have kept us posted, all of us posted, as to his 
progress. But if you think about the devastation that an AR-15 combat 
weapon assault rifle can do to a human body, imagine what it did to 
this poor little boy's body. That is the reality of the issue we are 
discussing.
  Many gun manufacturers, like Smith & Wesson, Mossberg, Bushmaster, 
and Daniel Defense have launched ad campaigns marketing their assault 
weapons like they are fashion accessories.
  Let me show you a few of them. This is from Mossberg:

       Engineered to the specs of freedom and independence, stand 
     and salute the tactical rifle. We are America's oldest 
     family-owned firearms manufacturer, building dependable, 
     hard-working rifles and shotguns since 1919. American 
     built, American strong. Arm yourself with a Mossberg.

  That is the type of weapon that shot Cooper Roberts, that killed the 
parents of Aiden McCarthy. How is it being marketed? A symbol of 
independence and freedom.
  Some of these other ads--want proof of your manhood? ``Consider your 
Man Card reissued,'' says Bushmaster with their AR-15.
  I want to make sure, as we said at the hearing yesterday, that these 
weapons are properly characterized. I will tell you how I characterize 
them. The manufacturers of these weapons should be ashamed of what is 
happening across America. To suggest that this typifies the values of 
this country is just plain wrong and offensive. It is time for us to 
name and shame these companies. It is time to hold them accountable for 
the devastation they made possible. How many AR-15s are there in 
America? We don't really know. The best estimate is 20 million--20 
million.
  I want to dispel a common talking point we hear from the other side 
of the aisle. We heard it yesterday. They claim our communities don't 
need new gun safety laws; all they need are good guys with guns. I wish 
it were that simple. It is not.
  In one survey of 433 active shooter attacks, how many were stopped by 
a good guy with a gun? Twenty-two out of four hundred and thirty-
three--about 5 percent. Half of those 22 were security guards and 
trained law enforcement who were there present on the scene and off 
duty.
  The sad reality is, when the police come on the scene and someone is 
holding a gun, they don't know if it is a perpetrator, a danger, or 
somebody on their side. In many instances, they shoot the wrong person, 
making a split-second decision in seeing a person holding a gun.
  So this notion that we are going to come to the rescue of one another 
and stop mass shootings is not a reality. Five percent of active 
shooter attacks were stopped by a good guy with a gun--5 percent. 
Imagine buying a car and being told there is only a 5-percent chance 
that the airbag will go off if you need it in a crash? You wouldn't 
take that car out of the dealership, and for good reason.
  We heard testimony yesterday from RAND Corporation firearms expert 
Dr. Kyleanne Hunter. She told us that assault weapons make mass 
shootings significantly more lethal.
  The evidence is clear. It is time for us to have a national 
conversation about America and mass shooting.
  Let me say that the manufacturers shouldn't get off the hook. They 
aren't just selling you a product.
  Let me show you one other thing that is particularly outrageous. 
Sadly, this is in my home State of Illinois. It is a JR-15. It is 
designed to look like the AR-15, the combat weapon assault rifle. It is 
lighter, so it can be carried by a kid. Here are the symbols of this 
JR-15. They are skulls, skulls of children. Each one of them has a 
pacifier in his mouth. It isn't just on this poster, on this ad; it is 
emblazoned on the gun itself. This is a kid's assault weapon. Think 
about that for a second. In America, we have reached a point where that 
is even thought of in light of the killing that has taken place.
  The hearing yesterday showed an outpouring of people from Highland 
Park in numbers I never expected. I believe there were 100 people there 
who, on their own dime, came out to Washington to make sure all of us 
in Congress knew what happened in Highland Park, how that village and 
their lives were changed on the Fourth of July. What are we going to do 
about it--shrug our shoulders and wait for tomorrow's mass shooting? 
Sadly, we can expect one to come.
  I listen to the defenses, but, frankly, I can't understand people 
trying to defend the right to own an assault rifle in America.
  One Senator argued: Well, it is just an inanimate object, you know. 
Don't blame the object for the results.
  I wonder if he feels the same way about a grenade launcher. Should 
people have the right to own grenade launchers? I hope we can all agree 
that is an incredible thought. Why doesn't this weapon fall into a 
similar category, a combat, Army assault weapon that is being used by 
individuals to kill so many innocent people in this country--kill them 
at a concert in Las Vegas, at schools in Connecticut, at schools in 
Texas, at Fourth of July parades in my home State.
  Last month, we did come together--and I want to salute Senator 
Murphy, who is on the floor--to pass a bill that was the most important 
gun safety law we considered in three decades. I voted for it. It 
didn't address this issue at all except in the background checks for 
those under 21. And I am glad it did, but it didn't address the issue 
of whether these guns should even be in America at this point, legal in 
America. That, I think, is the critical threshold issue.
  Incidentally, this shooter, who seemed to have a pretty ill-fated 
life from the start, managed to buy high-capacity magazines so that he 
could clip in quickly 30 rounds here, 30 rounds there, and fire off 83 
times. Why in the world does anyone need a high-capacity clip magazine? 
I don't understand it. It doesn't have any practical value for sport or 
hunting.
  We need to address the widespread, serious problem of civilian access 
to military assault weapons, even for shooters as young as 18.
  I thank the people from Highland Park for coming yesterday and all 
the brave law enforcement and first responders whom I saw gather that 
evening when I arrived at Highland Park. We owe them a lot. They are 
doing an amazing job, and we should pay tribute to them and what they 
did. But even they, being present and armed, could not stop this from 
happening. They were up against a mighty weapon--a weapon we trust for 
the military, we trust for the police; a weapon which has no place in 
the hands of people like the shooter in Highland Park on the Fourth of 
July.
  Are we going to continue this American tradition of mass shootings? 
Sadly, we will unless this body, this Senate, decides that it is worth 
the fight, worth the political debate. After Highland Park, count me 
in. I want to be on the record saying it is time to put an end to these 
assault rifles, these weapons of war which have sadly taken so many 
innocent lives like poor Aiden McCarthy's parents and five others who 
died in Highland Park.
  I hope for our children's sake that we don't run away from this 
problem. The people in Highland Park had to run away from the Fourth of 
July parade, and now they are counting on us to stand up and face it 
squarely.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Booker). The Senator from Tennessee.


                          Biden Administration

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, America is facing a perfect storm of 
inflation, unsustainable energy costs, and supply chain chaos. Russia 
and Iran are circling the wagons.
  Joe Biden is still finding new ways to put the American people last. 
In fact,

[[Page S3586]]

when it comes to getting gas prices under control, he has chosen to 
unleash a China-first policy rather than unleashing the power of 
American energy.
  I have spent the past 18 months laying out in great detail how Joe 
Biden and the Democrats have damaged our credibility and enriched our 
adversaries. They undermined our economic recovery. They abandoned the 
border. They destroyed American energy independence. The list goes on 
and on, unfortunately. It appears that everything they have done makes 
life worse for ``we the people.''
  Unfortunately, it is emboldening the axis of evil--Russia, China, 
Iran, North Korea. Under normal circumstances, Vladimir Putin's trip to 
Iran this week would be a cause for concern, but with the Biden 
administration in charge, it appears it could be just the tip of the 
iceberg because although Russia and Iran are competitors, especially in 
the energy sector, they are absolutely united in their hatred of the 
United States and in their desire to undermine Western interests.
  When they look at the United States, they see a country whose 
President got a head start undermining those interests on day 1 of his 
administration, and you better believe they are ready to take advantage 
of this. They are ready for it. This week, look at what they have done. 
You had Gazprom, which is the Russian energy giant, and the National 
Iranian Oil Company come together and announce a $40 billion agreement 
to work together on oil and gas development and pipeline construction. 
They are reading the writing on the wall, and what they see is 
hesitation from the U.S. President to move us back to energy 
independence, where we were on day 1 of his administration, so they are 
making plans as to how they will work together and dominate the energy 
sector.
  Meanwhile, Joe Biden has also sold about a million barrels of oil 
from our Strategic Petroleum Reserve to the Chinese Communist Party. 
When I have spoken with Tennesseans about this, they are furious. They 
cannot understand why he would make a choice to do this. The left has 
done their best to provide cover for the President, claiming that a 
million barrels is really nothing to worry about, but you know it is 
something to worry about. Our SPR has about 750 million barrels in it. 
We are drawing it down at about a million barrels a day. Plus, the 
President is now selling to our adversaries--selling it.
  We did a little bit of research into what China can get out of a 
barrel of oil, and here is what we found: That gives you 20 gallons of 
gasoline; 12\1/2\ gallons of distillate, which is what we use for 
diesel fuel; and about 3\1/2\ gallons of jet fuel. To Tennesseans, this 
makes a big difference.
  I really agree with my fellow Tennesseans about this. When they look 
at this picture and they think about the President's big sale to Hunter 
Biden's friends in Beijing, they don't see a gallon of gas here and 
there. What they see is 20 million full tanks of gas. They see diesel 
fuel that our farmers need. Right now, with the price of diesel 
doubling, we have farmers in Tennessee who cannot get crops planted. 
They chose not to plant crops because of the cost of diesel, 
fertilizer, chemicals, pesticides. They see sabotage of their hopes and 
their dreams and their plans--their plans--for their family, for their 
business, for their farm.
  As I have been out and about around the State and talked to 
Tennesseans, they have a message for this President, this 
administration, my Democratic colleagues. This is more than just a 
political disagreement. In their minds, and I agree, this is a national 
security risk--a national security risk.
  We are making ourselves vulnerable. Giving any aid or advantage to 
our adversaries is wrong, and this has got to end. Joe Biden and the 
Democrats must abandon this China-first energy policy and return to an 
America-first policy.
  Restart the Keystone Pipeline. Approve more energy infrastructure. 
Hold more lease sales. Approve drilling permits that are waiting for 
approval.
  Let's get the regulators out of the way. Stall some of these 42 
regulations that the President has put on the oil and energy sector 
this year. Let's do this. Let's advantage ourselves with American 
energy before it is too late.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Connecticut.
  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the following 
Senators be permitted to speak prior to the scheduled vote. Senator 
Murphy for up to 15 minutes; Senator Cornyn for up to 15 minutes; and 
Senator Coons for up to 3 minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                            Electoral Reform

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to talk about a 
piece of legislation that was introduced yesterday by 16 bipartisan 
Senators: the Electoral Count Reform and Presidential Transition 
Improvement Act.
  I am proud of the effort between Republicans and Democrats to put 
aside our differences on other issues and to be able to put before this 
body a proposal that will assure that the votes that are cast all 
across this country for President in 2024 result in the winner of that 
election sitting in the Oval Office.
  And I come to the floor today to underscore for my colleagues why 
this piece of legislation is so vitally necessary.
  All across the country, we are seeing an epidemic of candidates being 
nominated for Governor, for secretary of state, for Congress, who don't 
believe Joe Biden won the 2020 election.
  They instead believe these wild conspiracy theories about voting 
machines that magically switched votes from one candidate to another, 
Sharpies that voted for Joe Biden illegally. All of it has been 
debunked, but the conspiracy theories and the support for this notion 
that Donald Trump actually won the election, according to the rules of 
the electoral college in 2020, continue to spread.
  The Republican nominee for Governor in Pennsylvania, who appoints the 
State's chief election official, was right here at the Capitol, yards 
away from this Chamber on January 6, as individuals were storming the 
building trying to do harm to us. He took part in high-level meetings 
after the 2020 election, intended to overturn Biden's win in 
Pennsylvania.
  He is perhaps mere months away from being the next Governor and chief 
elections officer of that State. Across the country, former President 
Trump is organizing what he calls an America First Secretary of State 
Coalition, and he is pretty unapologetic about what the design is. It 
is to install election officers all across the country whose chief 
loyalty is to Donald Trump, not the vote.
  His endorsed candidate in Arizona, for instance, called for Biden's 
win in Arizona to be thrown out and for the Republican State 
legislature to appoint its own electors instead.
  In Nevada, the endorsed Republican candidate for secretary of state, 
another Trump loyalist, says if he was in office in 2020, he would not 
have certified Joe Biden's win, leading to an immediate constitutional 
crisis.
  What is happening all across the country right now is a complete, 
total rejection of democracy by Trump supporters and his endorsed 
candidates.
  Now, they aren't representative of the entire Republican Party, but, 
unfortunately, they are winning primaries all across the country, and 
they are winning elections all across the country.
  And these Trump loyalists, they are not interested in the winner of 
an election becoming President if that winner isn't Donald Trump. They 
effectively want Donald Trump installed as a monarch, and they are 
willing to just throw out democracy if that is what is necessary to 
keep their leader in power.
  And as I mentioned, this isn't some fringe phenomenon any longer. I 
think we have a lot of Republicans in the Senate and the House who see 
this danger coming and want to take steps to prevent it. That is why we 
are introducing this legislation, but there are over 100 winners of 
Republican primaries for Congress and statewide office this year who 
believe--who have stated this belief publicly that the 2020 election 
was stolen and that Donald Trump should still be President.
  There is just a very well-developed and well-organized movement, 
where Trump supporters are learning from his inability to overturn the 
election in 2020, and they are galvanizing themselves to leave nothing 
to chance in 2024.

[[Page S3587]]

  The operation to install Trump in the White House in 2025, if he 
runs, will be more sophisticated and better organized than 2020. The 
threat that 2024 will be the last year of American democracy is real.
  I know that sounds like hyperbole, but we came really close to losing 
our democracy in 2020. And if a President is installed in the White 
House who did not actually win the election, then I don't know how you 
claim that this experiment for 250 years is still ongoing.
  So we need to act, as a body, across the aisle. Those of us who 
believe that our loyalty to country is more important than our loyalty 
to party need to act to make it as hard as possible for a group of 
traitors to install as President the loser of the 2024 Presidential 
election.

  And so toward that end, we have introduced a piece of legislation 
that will seek to reform the way in which electors are sent to Congress 
and the way in which we count those electors to put up as many barriers 
as we can to these efforts to install the loser of the 2024 election as 
President of the United States.
  So I am grateful to Senator Collins and Senator Manchin for leading 
this process. I am grateful to be a part of it, along with Senators 
Portman, Sinema, Romney, Shaheen, Murkowski, Warner, Tillis, Capito, 
Cardin, Young, Coons, Sasse, and Graham.
  And so let me tell you, in just a few minutes, what the most 
important elements--let me just tell you about some of the key elements 
of the Electoral Count Reform Act. It engages to make the selection and 
counting of fraudulent electors harder by both addressing efforts by 
Congress to overturn valid State results but also to make it harder for 
States to submit to Congress invalid State results.
  Now, on January 6 of last year, we saw a handful of our colleagues 
attempt to throw out the valid elector slates from States like 
Pennsylvania and Arizona. And, luckily, in the end, those efforts only 
got a handful of votes here in the Senate, but the majority of 
Republicans voted to throw out those slates in the House of 
Representatives, which just tells you how mainstream these views have 
become.
  And so, in two important ways, we make that attempt by Congress to 
throw out valid results from a State a little bit, but substantially, 
harder. Under our current law, it only takes one single Senator in 
order to throw this entire Senate into a debate over whether or not we 
should count or throw out certain electors.
  In the end, there were, I think, 12 Republican Senators who suggested 
we should throw out ballots, but really all that was needed was 1. So 
what we do is we increase that threshold from 1 Senator to 20 percent 
of Senators, from 1 House Member to 20 percent of House Members to 
begin that debate. Ultimately, you still need a majority of the House 
and the Senate to throw out an elector slate, but you can't even begin 
that debate now without having 20 percent of each body. That is a 
substantial and important change.
  Second, we clarify the role of the Vice President. Now, some would 
argue that this isn't necessary; that the Vice President's role in this 
process is ceremonial, but that is not what Donald Trump thought. 
Donald Trump and his cadre of fringe lawyers believed, by reading a 
statute in a particular way, that Mike Pence had the ability by himself 
to refuse to count certain slates of electors.
  Now, that is not how the 1887 Act reads, but just to be absolutely 
clear, our reform act clarifies the law to make 100 percent clear that 
the Vice President's role is just ceremonial.
  And then, as I said, we also take steps to make it harder for States 
to send fraudulent results to Congress because that is the primary 
threat in 2024. I still think that there are the votes in the Senate, 
no matter what the elections look like in 2024, for the Senate to make 
sure that we don't throw out valid results that are sent to the 
Congress.
  The bigger threat is that one candidate wins in a State like Arizona 
or--depending on what happens in the gubernatorial election in 
Pennsylvania--Pennsylvania and instead that State decides to send 
electors for the losing candidate to Congress, making some vague, broad 
claims of fraud that they can't substantiate.
  So we make that exercise in fraud less likely through a number of 
means. First, there is a really ambiguous provision in the 1887 law 
which President Trump argued in the courts allowed for State 
legislatures to appoint their own electors if they judged that the 
election was incomplete. Now, what that was initially intended to mean 
was if an election didn't happen because of a natural disaster, but 
Trump's lawyers thought that that meant that these claims of fraud 
could satisfy that incomplete criteria.
  Well, we removed that ambiguity in this underlying piece of 
legislation. No longer will anybody be able to claim that State 
legislatures can just step in after the fact and appoint different 
electors.
  Second, we have a clear prohibition that State legislatures can't 
change the rules of how electors are chosen after the election itself. 
Now, it is up to State legislatures as to how they appoint electors.
  Every State right now appoints them based upon who won the popular 
vote in their State, but the Constitution does give that power to the 
State legislature. It does not give them the power to change that 
process after the voters have cast their vote. We make that clear in 
this piece of legislation.
  And then, most importantly, we clarify the process by which campaigns 
and candidates can contest a fraudulent certification or a fraudulent 
appointment of electors.
  As we saw in the 2000 election, there is overlapping contesting 
jurisdictions between States and the Federal court system. It often 
takes very--a very long time for those processes to play out and 
unwind. We set up in this bill a new expedited process of review by a 
three-judge panel. We limit the cases that can be brought to that panel 
by the campaigns themselves, just to make sure we aren't incentivizing 
spurious litigation.
  But that new process allows the candidates and the campaigns, if they 
believe that the laws of the State have not been upheld in allowing the 
majority winner of that State to dictate what electors get sent to 
Washington, to make that claim before a three-judge panel in an 
expedited fashion, to have that case go up to the Supreme Court in an 
expedited manner as well.
  Clarifying the way in which we solve for these contests, if they 
arise over a valid slate of electors and an invalid slate of electors 
is an important reform in this bill.
  Listen, what we have built over the last 250 years in the United 
States of America, it really is a miracle, and we should never forget 
how much of an anomaly American democracy is when you look at the broad 
scope of the governments under which people have lived.
  This idea that citizens, not dictators or Kings or plutocrats, get to 
decide who leads a nation--250 years later, it is still a revolutionary 
idea.
  And I remind my constituents all the time that democracy is really 
unnatural, right? There are not a lot of other things that are 
important to us in our lives that we run through democratic vote. Our 
workplaces are really important places, but we don't run our workplace 
through democratic vote. The boss--the CEO--makes the decisions there.
  We love our sports teams, right? We follow them. We live and die for 
them. But the decisions on those teams--they are not made by democratic 
vote. There is a coach, a general manager who makes the decisions. I 
love my kids, but they don't get an equal vote in the decisions of my 
household with my wife and me. Lots of things that are important to us 
in our lives don't run by democratic vote. We are very comfortable, in 
fact, with hierarchal systems, with one person or a handful of people 
making decisions for us, but we have reserved this idea of democracy 
for the decisions that are made that govern our community, our town, 
our State, or our Nation.
  We need to remember that over the course of world history, almost no 
one has lived in a democratic civilization. Why? Because it is natural 
for human beings to want their chosen leader to be in charge, their 
preferred leader to be in charge, no matter what everybody else in the 
community believes. It is also natural for leaders, once they have 
tasted power, to want to cling to that power and refuse to give it up, 
no matter the wishes of their citizenry.

[[Page S3588]]

  So we need to be constantly vigilant to protect this experiment. In 
the grand sweep of world history, that is what it is--a revolutionary 
experiment. We need to recognize the moments when the threats to that 
experiment are new and novel and more grave than normal and be nimble 
enough to respond.
  So I would argue that this is one of those moments, and I am so 
grateful to the group of bipartisan Senators who have worked so hard to 
introduce this legislation.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Texas.


                               H.R. 4346

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, the business before the Senate is a 
critical undertaking to shore up our vulnerability to imported 
microcircuits, otherwise known as semiconductors. You might wonder why 
this is so important if you haven't been following the debate over the 
last couple of years.
  While this legislation has taken many names, it began as the CHIPS 
for America Act in June of 2020, which established a new program to 
incentivize manufacturers of these tiny microcircuits, known as 
semiconductors, to set up shop here in the United States.
  We have tried to fund the program at different times through the 
Endless Frontier Act; the U.S. Innovation and Competition Act, 
sometimes called USICA; the America COMPETES Act; the Make It in 
America Act. But no matter what the title is or whatever you call it, 
the purpose is to eliminate this unacceptable risk that somehow--due to 
pandemic, due to military conflict, due to natural disaster--our access 
to the most advanced semiconductors on the planet would be cut off, 
with devastating consequences to the U.S. economy and our national 
security.
  I know some people wonder, Why should the Federal taxpayer provide 
financial incentives to semiconductor manufacturing? And that is a 
perfectly good question. The reason is, we are in a competition with 
countries all around the world that are providing incentives to build 
these necessary and essential facilities in their country, and if we 
don't participate in this competition, we will end up maintaining our 
dependency entirely on semiconductors imported into the United States. 
We saw big investments being made in other countries--China, the EU, 
Germany, France. A number of different countries want this 
manufacturing capability in their country because they understand its 
importance to their economy and security.
  Now, you might wonder, Why is it necessary? Well, there is a reason--
an economic reason--why these semiconductor manufacturers are almost 
all based in Asia. The overwhelming majority are made in Taiwan, and 
that is because it costs 30 percent less to build these facilities in 
Asia than it does here in the United States.
  But COVID-19 exposed a lot of vulnerabilities of supply chains, 
whether it is PPE--personal protective equipment--or semiconductors, 
and this idea that just because somebody could build something cheaper 
somewhere else, that checked all the boxes. It does not check all the 
boxes. And there are some things we must have access to, and one is a 
secure source of these microcircuits that run everything from your cell 
phone to the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. We know that semiconductors 
will get more and more important as the world competes to come up with 
smaller and more powerful semiconductor chips to operate everything 
from computers to our weapons systems.
  When the pandemic hit, the supply chain vulnerability was 
demonstrated by empty car lots, backordered electronics, higher prices, 
contributing to inflation. Consumers who never needed to know what a 
semiconductor was found themselves impacted by this disruption.
  My State is home to companies across a full range of industries that 
have been impacted, from consumer electronics to defense companies.
  Last spring, an executive from Toyota told me that when he first 
started with the company, he could count the number of chips in a given 
vehicle on two hands. That certainly is not the case now, with almost 
autonomous vehicles and certainly with all the sensors that have made 
driving a lot safer and a lot more convenient added to new cars. Think 
about the high-tech features in our cars--navigation systems, 
Bluetooth, automatic braking, backup cameras, and parking sensors. That 
is on top of standard functions like power steering, air-conditioning, 
and window wipers. Today, some cars use as many as 1,000 semiconductor 
chips.

  So the pandemic of COVID-19 demonstrated our vulnerability to our 
supply chains that made getting so many semiconductors impossible.
  This wasn't just a problem for automakers; virtually every industry 
was impacted. In many ways, the global chip shortage served as a wake-
up call--certainly to me and I believe other Members of Congress and 
the Senate who voted consistently to eliminate this vulnerability in 
our supply chains. It forced us to recognize the vulnerability of that 
supply chain and then to do something about it, which we are in the 
process of doing.
  As bad as the chip-related shortages have been in the last 2 years, 
they pale in comparison to what could be coming if we don't act.
  As I said, the vast majority of the world's chips are made in Asia, 
with the bulk coming from Taiwan. Sixty-three percent of the advanced 
semiconductors in the world are made in Taiwan. Even more concerning is 
that 92 percent of the world's most advanced semiconductors come from 
that country. So 62 percent--63 percent of semiconductors come from 
Taiwan, but 92 percent of the most advanced, the most powerful, the 
smallest semiconductors come from that same place. None, zero, zip, 
nada are made in America. None.
  Taiwanese semiconductor firms make the chips used in our military's 
Joint Strike Fighter, the F-35, artificial intelligence, and other 
military-grade devices.
  Now, if you have been paying attention to what President Xi and the 
People's Republic of China have been saying about Taiwan, they are 
saying they are going to unify the PRC with Taiwan either peacefully or 
by military action.
  Again, I believe the risk of pandemic, natural disaster, or military 
intervention makes this risk simply unacceptable.
  Last fall, I led a congressional delegation to visit Indochina, the 
INDOPACOM area of operations, to learn more about the threat of Chinese 
aggression when it comes to Taiwan. One of the leaders we met with was 
the commander of the Indo-Pacific Command, located in Hawaii, who 
described the current power dynamic rather succinctly. He said it is 
not a question of if China invades Taiwan but when.
  We even have a rough idea of when that could happen. President Xi has 
made no secret of his desire to unify Taiwan with the mainland, saying 
he wants to be ready to do that by 2027, just 5 years from now. But, as 
we have learned from Putin's invasion of Ukraine, when one person makes 
a decision, you can't depend on any particular timeline because it 
could happen in the blink of an eye.
  It is tough to overestimate the impact this lack of access to these 
advanced semiconductors would have on the United States and our allies. 
To be sure, our cars, televisions, refrigerators, and washing machines 
would be impacted, but that is only the beginning. Those would be mere 
inconveniences. How would we manufacture Javelin missiles that are used 
in Ukraine? Well, we couldn't because they all run on semiconductors. 
There is the Stinger that is being used so effectively by the 
Ukrainians to go after Russian tanks invading Ukraine. The Joint Strike 
Fighter, the F-35, our most advanced, fifth-generation, stealth 
aircraft, is chock-full of semiconductors that would be unavailable if 
our access was cut off for some reason.
  Then just think about our critical infrastructure. Think about cell 
towers. Think about the energy grid. Where would we get the chips that 
are needed for modern farming equipment? Just as cars have become more 
and more automated, so have tractors and other farming equipment.
  What would we do for the chips that we need to treat water to make 
sure it is clean and easily available?
  So these aren't problems just for consumers; it is a major national 
security vulnerability.
  Back in 1980, President Jimmy Carter gave his State of the Union 
Address in

[[Page S3589]]

which he spoke about the instability of the Persian Gulf and Soviet 
threats to the movement of oil through the Strait of Hormuz. That was 
back in the days when we depended almost entirely on imported oil into 
the United States. But Jimmy Carter said in 1980 that any attempt to 
gain control of the Strait of Hormuz and to block access to that 
essential energy source, he said, would be ``an assault on the vital 
interests of the United States of America.'' That would be a 
declaration of war.
  I think the same argument applies to semiconductors today. In fact, 
some people have called semiconductors the new oil because it is so 
essential to our way of life, to our economy, and our security.
  Just as the Soviets could have blocked the Strait of Hormuz and 
choked off the global oil supply back in 1980, the People's Republic of 
China could seize Taiwan's supply of chips and starve the rest of the 
world. Will they go into the ventilators and the other lifesaving 
medical equipment or provide homes with clean drinking water? These are 
important questions that many of us have been asking and looking to try 
to find ways to mitigate, if not to eliminate, our dependency on 
imported semiconductors.
  So funding this program in this bill currently before the Senate will 
shore up domestic chip manufacturing to make sure that we meet the 
needs of our most critical industries. It would deliver economic 
benefits to our communities through new investments and jobs. It will 
strengthen our national security by providing chips that can make their 
way into markets around the world. It will ensure that we have a 
reliable supply of chips so we can outinnovate and outcompete any and 
every adversary, and that is a point worth stressing.
  We know we are in competition with the People's Republic of China, 
but the way we will beat them is to outcompete them. The only way we 
will do that is with access to the most advanced electronics, including 
semiconductors, that are made anywhere on the planet, and we need to 
make them here in America so there can be trusted supply chains and 
readily available.
  So I appreciate all of our colleagues who supported this legislation 
for the long and winding journey that has brought us here today, and I 
hope this bill will pass the Senate and the House next week and finally 
make its way to the President's desk.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Delaware.


                   Nomination of Reuben E. Brigety II

  Mr. COONS. Mr. President, you and I have had the blessing of 
traveling to South Africa together, so I know you know, as I do, that 
it is a critical nation, not just on its own terms as a country of 70 
million people of a multilingual, multifaith, multiethnic democracy 
working to achieve the incredible promise enshrined in its 
Constitution, working to achieve the vision of a liberation struggle, 
but it is also a country that is critical to regional security and for 
the path of the globe and to the security and stability of democracy in 
this century. This is why I stand to speak briefly on behalf of my 
friend, Reuben Brigety, the nominee to be our next Ambassador to South 
Africa, whose confirmation we will take up in just a few moments.
  Reuben is someone I admire deeply. He attended the Naval Academy, 
served in the U.S. Navy, was Deputy Assistant Secretary of State both 
for African Affairs and for Population, Refugees, and Migration.
  I met him as Ambassador to the African Union, knew him well as dean 
of the Elliott School at GW. He took on the challenge of service as the 
president of the University of the South, better known as Sewanee; and 
now our President has nominated him to represent us in South Africa.
  As we have seen in recent votes and actions at the United Nations and 
in discussions and debates around the world, African countries--in this 
moment, during this war in Ukraine, in the face of Russia's 
aggression--are turning away from us. They are not believing the 
reality that it is Russian aggression that is causing food scarcity and 
fertilizer prices to spike, and they are more than not taking Russia's 
side on this.
  We cannot take these relationships for granted. The United States, 
for decades, has been a close development and public health partner of 
South Africa. We have to send our best, and Ambassador Brigety is the 
right person at the right time to advance the critical relationship 
goals that we have between the United States and South Africa.


                       Tribute to Alexandra Davis

  Mr. President, one of the blessings of serving here in the Senate is 
getting to know natives of New Jersey, like yourself and like my 
foreign policy adviser, Allie Davis.
  I will do my best to get through these next few minutes of remarks 
without being unduly emotional, but she deserves a catch in the throat 
and a tear in the eye because Allie is someone who from the moment she 
came to join my team 6 years ago has been a remarkable person--a person 
of great spirit and character, someone who also spent time in South 
Africa as a young person.
  After graduating from the University of Delaware, a tour as a 
Fulbright in South Africa prepared her to join my team as a foreign 
policy fellow.
  As she was just confessing to me in my office a few moments ago, she 
knew far less about governance and politics than I imagined. She 
carries herself with remarkable grace and confidence. She steadily has 
risen to be a legislative aide, a legislative assistant, and now my 
foreign policy adviser.
  I don't have the time--but I wish I did--to detail all the pieces of 
significant and important legislation she has helped shepherd through 
to success. She has critically supported my leadership on the State and 
Foreign Operations Appropriations team. She has been critical as we 
have worked to address this moment of global hunger. She has helped get 
the Global Fragility Act from concept to enactment. She has helped make 
the Development Finance Corporation a powerful tool for development. 
She helped shape and craft the Nita M. Lowey Middle East Partnership 
for Peace Act, and she nearly single-handedly, at a time when I was 
confident this could not be done, got the Sudan Claims Resolution Act 
through this Congress and fundamentally changed the arc of the search 
for democracy in Sudan.
  We had the chance to travel together on a Presidential mission to 
Ethiopia, during which she had truly memorable encounters with its head 
of state and an opportunity to see and participate and help drive 
diplomacy firsthand. We traveled together to so many other countries: 
from the UAE to France to Georgia to Italy and, perhaps most memorably, 
to Sudan, where I was honored to receive one of their leading national 
awards, which really was an award in recognition of her work on behalf 
of the Sudanese people.
  She goes to serve the House Foreign Affairs Committee, whose chairman 
I accosted last night at an event, and said: You are causing great harm 
to me, and I resent deeply the fact that you are causing this most 
talented and skilled and trusted member to leave the Senate and go to 
the House.
  But she joins as a member of their professional staff, a great team. 
And I know that we will continue to work hard and to work closely 
together in the years and decades ahead. A great friend, a great 
colleague, and someone to whom I wish great success in the many years 
ahead.
  With that, I urge my colleagues to vote in support of the nomination 
of Reuben Brigety to be Ambassador, and I offer my greatest thanks to 
Allie Davis for her talented and skillful service on behalf of the 
people of Delaware.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 62 (Thursday, April 7, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2076-S2078]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                           Transgender Rights

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I am one of the few parents of young 
children in the Senate. But almost every one of us here is a parent, so 
you know that one of the most spectacular things your kid can do is to 
write you a letter. Sometimes--frankly, most of the time--when I have 
gotten those letters,

[[Page S2077]]

it is because my kid wants to protest something that I have done. I 
have gotten a few of those where my kids are so upset about a rule or a 
decision that we have made as parents, they sit down and they catalog 
their grievances on paper.
  Maybe if you are lucky, you get a nice letter. My in-laws have one 
still plastered up on their wall from their youngest daughter who wrote 
them a nice list when she was young about the things she appreciated. 
But those ``Dear Mommy'' or ``Dear Daddy'' letters, that is one of the 
rare joys of parenthood.
  On March 6, 2018, Patricia Verbeeck awoke to find one of those 
letters for her left by her child Eric. It was laying on the pillow of 
his bed. She picked it up, and she read it to herself. ``Dear Mommy,'' 
her child wrote. Maybe her eyes twinkled thinking of what sweet or 
funny thoughts might come next. But this is what the letter said:

       Dear Mommy, I am sorry to do this to you, but I have killed 
     myself by jumping off the top floor, the 12th floor, of your 
     building . . . at the nearest stair exit to the elevators on 
     that floor.
       I felt I could no longer live my life as a lie, living as a 
     boy, instead of the girl I knew I could become. I am sorry I 
     lied to you. I was losing hope in the world and could not see 
     my way out of the wrong body and I decided it was time for my 
     life to end . . .

  As you might imagine, Patricia didn't get beyond that first line. 
Upon reading it, she dropped the letter, and she ran straight to her 
balcony and below, she saw the vague outline of a body and police 
officers surrounding it.
  I follow President Trump's family members on social media. I do it 
because I know how influential they are. I know how many Americans--
good, decent Americans--admire them and listen to what they say.
  Lately, the posts from Trump's family members have just been of one 
theme: America should fear transgender children. The Trump family and 
their network of supporters and sycophants have decided that Eric 
Verbeeck and other kids like them are the No. 1 problem facing America 
today. And over the past year, this crowd has orchestrated a relentless 
and unceasing campaign to marginalize, demonize, and bully kids whose 
gender identity is different from their biological sex.
  This year alone, Republican State legislatures across the country 
have introduced 150 bills to deny rights to transgender Americans.
  Today, the Alabama legislature introduced legislation that is fast-
tracked, from what I understand, to become law that makes it a felony--
a felony--for a doctor to provide healthcare to a transgender child. In 
Texas, the Governor directed his child welfare agency to investigate 
parents like Patricia who are simply determined to support their 
children if they help them secure the gender-affirming treatment they 
need. Criminalizing parents of transgender children is just around the 
corner in some States.
  In Congress, Trump's allies spent more time talking about transgender 
kids than they spent talking about healthcare or taxes or education. 
Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene--perhaps Trump's best ally in the 
House--had a sign outside her office calling the experience of 
transpeople a ``fiction'' just to bully her hallway neighbor, 
Representative Marie Newman, who has a transgender daughter.
  And in the Supreme Court hearings here last month, at least one 
Senator used their time on the national stage to suggest that the 
entire idea of being transgender is a leftwing hoax.
  All across America, Republicans--not all Republicans but the Trump 
wing of the Republican Party has declared war against transgender kids, 
and these children have noticed. A recent survey of transgender youth 
showed that half of them--52 percent--had contemplated suicide over the 
last year.
  Just think about that for a second, my colleagues, half of all the 
kids who are transgender come to the conclusion at some point in their 
young lives that they would be better off dead than live in a world 
that believes they are threats to be marginalized or expunged. That is 
a national crisis, and we need to talk, honestly and candidly, about 
what has led us to this moment.
  We need to start by acknowledging that this conversation is long 
overdue. This dialogue about transgender children, it may feel new, but 
transgender kids aren't, transgender adults aren't. The only difference 
between today and, say, 50 years ago, is that today there is space for 
kids and adults to be open about who they truly are.
  We are all born with a biological sex. And centuries of tightly 
controlled constructs about what a man should be and what a man should 
act like and what a woman should be and what a woman should act like, 
they have sorted human beings into personality and professional 
profiles based on that gender.
  But there are many of us--this has been the case for human history--
who don't associate with the gender that biological chance ascribed to 
us. There are people who are assigned male at birth who feel, in their 
bones, that they are female. That is what Eric felt. That is what Eric 
knew. And there are people who are assigned female at birth, but know, 
they just know, that they are male.
  And there is nothing wrong with that. That process of figuring out 
which gender you identify with, it poses no threat to anyone. But we do 
have to acknowledge how hard it is, given those centuries of gender 
identity and stereotypes, for some Americans to understand what a kid 
like Eric was going through.
  For Americans, for instance, who were born a male and feel like a 
male and who are surrounded by family and friends who associate with a 
gender that matches the sex they were born into, the whole notion of a 
boy becoming a girl or a girl becoming a boy--I get it--that can be 
disconcerting. It can be difficult to understand. But I also know that 
this discomfort will pass as more Americans learn what I have learned. 
Transgender and nonbinary children aren't any different than any other 
kids.
  You might not know a transgender or nonbinary kid, but, trust, me, 
you do. You know what these kids are like because they are no different 
than any other children. My son has transgender and nonbinary friends. 
He has nontransgender friends, but when they are all sitting around our 
kitchen after school, there is no difference between them in terms of 
how they act and how they talk, what they are like, what they like, 
what they don't like. They are kids. They are just kids.
  And so here is my message to the adults with power who have decided 
to spend their days bullying these kids: Stop it. Grow up. So you are 
not ready to accept transgender people, fine. I hope you come around 
someday. But these kids threaten no one. They are hurting no one.
  And, well, there are important conversations we need to have about 
how we include transgender kids fully in sports. I could walk into a 
room of a thousand people in my State and ask how many of them have had 
a child lose a sporting event to a transgender girl and not a single 
hand would raise.
  Saving girls sports is not the reason why Donald Trump and Marjorie 
Taylor Greene and their whole political movement has made bullying 
transgender kids their top priority. No, it is their top priority 
because they know hate and fear of what some people don't understand 
has a habit of selling in this country. I wish that weren't true, but 
it has always been true.

  There is always going to be a constituency in America that will 
listen to an argument for why Black people or Mexicans or Muslims or 
gay people or transgender people are ruining America, why we should 
fear them.
  It is not true. It has never been true. But demagogues and their 
movements, they tend not to have actual ideas, things they are for. 
Demagogues normally just focus on what they hate.
  Let me say it again. Half of all transgender children in this country 
have thought to themselves, at some point, that they would be better 
off dead than live in a world where so many people fear them. That is 
heartbreaking to know that we are doing that to these kids.
  Being a teenager today--I know; I have one--with social media and the 
pandemic, it is hard enough, but imagine being a teenager who wakes up 
every day knowing that they aren't the gender they were assigned by 
biology at birth. Imagine keeping your feelings about that secret for 
years, worried--worried--about what your parents or your friends might 
say.
  Imagine the anguish of a scared 12-year-old or 14-year-old sitting in 
bed

[[Page S2078]]

awake for hours each night trying to process all of that alone with no 
help. Imagine the courage it then takes for that kid to have the first 
conversation with a parent or a friend. And then layer on top of that 
some of the most powerful people in the world deciding to use their 
power not to cure disease or end poverty or hunger but instead to use 
their power to target those very scared, desperate kids and to use 
their powers to harass and bully and shame them.
  Imagine how small, how insecure, how weak a person must be to have 
all that power and to use it to bully children.
  Seth Walsh was gay, not transgender, but his experience was not much 
different than Eric's. Students at his school were systematic in their 
targeting of him because of his sexual orientation. They pushed him 
down the stairs. They kicked him until he was badly bruised. They 
screamed at him. They called him names. No doubt these bullies took 
direction and inspiration from adults who paved the way, who endorsed 
this kind of hateful behavior.
  One day, after one of these incidents, a frightened Seth called his 
mom and he said: ``Mom, you have to come get me right now.'' His mom 
could feel--hear the fear in his voice, and so she grabbed Seth's 
little brother and they got in the car and they rushed to pick him up. 
His mom was so supportive. That afternoon they sat and they talked.
  Seth took a shower to calm himself down, and afterward he asked his 
mom for a pen and told her that he was going to go outside and play 
with the dogs. About 10 minutes later, his mom went outside to continue 
this conversation with her son, but it was too late. Seth had hung 
himself from a tree. The pen that he asked for was for his suicide 
note.
  I tell you these stories because they are consequences of adults' 
behavior. Donald Trump and Marjorie Taylor Greene and their ilk, they 
aren't murderers, but make no mistake, there is a direct through line 
from the hateful words and the policies of leaders and the misery that 
too many transgender, nonbinary, and gay kids are going through today.
  But I am also here to tell you that Trump and Taylor Greene, others 
like them, they are not the majority. And I want to make sure that I 
finish by sending a message to transgender children and adults that 
these hateful people, this movement that is growing out there to try to 
target you, it is not going to win. We are going to build a community 
of love and protection for you. No matter how bad things may seem right 
now, they are going to get better. The world is going to get kinder. 
Adults are going to learn their lessons. And if you don't have it now, 
as you are struggling with your identity, you will find a support 
structure that will nurture and support you. It is out there for you. 
You should be who you are. Don't feel like you need to hide your true 
self just because of these idiot adults who feel big by bullying people 
who are different from them.
  Be who you are and know that there are a whole lot of us who are 
going to work our tails off to support you, to love you, and to make 
sure that you get a chance to thrive--because in the long run, the 
bullies never win. They never do.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 151 (Tuesday, September 20, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4858-S4859]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS

                                 ______
                                 

SENATE RESOLUTION 775--EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE SENATE THAT VIOLENCE 
AND THREATS OF VIOLENCE AGAINST THE EMPLOYEES OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF 
         INVESTIGATION ARE UNACCEPTABLE AND SHOULD BE CONDEMNED

  Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Coons, and Mr. Blumenthal) submitted the 
following resolution; which was considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 775

       Whereas, pursuant to a judicially issued warrant, the 
     Federal Bureau of Investigation (referred to in this preamble 
     as ``FBI'') searched the residence of former President Donald 
     Trump (referred to in this preamble as ``the former 
     President'') on August 8, 2022, for classified and national 
     defense information records owned by the United States 
     (referred to in this preamble as ``the search'');
       Whereas, in the days following the search, employees of the 
     FBI and their families have been subjected to threats of 
     violence;
       Whereas the threats to employees of the FBI and their 
     families have been inflamed by--
           (1) calls from members of Congress to ``destroy the 
     FBI'' or ``defund the FBI'';
           (2) members of Congress comparing the execution of a 
     lawful warrant by the FBI to the actions of the Nazi Gestapo; 
     and
           (3) repeated attacks from the former President, who has 
     called FBI officials, among other insults, ``vicious 
     monsters'';

       Whereas the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security 
     issued an intelligence bulletin warning of a further increase 
     in violent threats and acts of violence against Federal law 
     enforcement officials and facilities following the search;
       Whereas these threats include placing a ``dirty bomb'' 
     outside of FBI headquarters and calls for ``civil war'' and 
     ``armed rebellion'';
       Whereas the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security 
     have also ``observed the personal identifying information of 
     possible targets of violence, such as home addresses and 
     identification of family members, disseminated online as 
     additional targets'';
       Whereas a man wearing body armor and armed with an AR-15 
     rifle and nail gun attempted to breach the FBI Cincinnati 
     Field Office on August 11, 2022;
       Whereas a man was indicted on August 16, 2022, for 
     threatening to murder everyone at the FBI, from the Director, 
     to agents, to the custodial staff;
       Whereas a man jumped a fence and threw rocks at the FBI 
     Chicago Field Office on August 25, 2022;
       Whereas the continued leveling of threats and baseless 
     attacks against the FBI will increase the risk of injury or 
     death that employees of the FBI face; and
       Whereas the employees of the FBI put their lives on the 
     line every day to protect the communities of the United 
     States and uphold the rule of law: Now, therefore, be it
         Resolved, That the Senate--
         (1) condemns attacks and threats of violence against the 
     employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
         (2) condemns calls from members of Congress to ``destroy 
     the FBI'' and ``defund the FBI'';
         (3) urges public officials at every level of government 
     to reject and condemn political violence and the threat of 
     political violence, regardless of its motivation;

[[Page S4859]]

         (4) honors the dedicated service of the employees of the 
     Federal Bureau of Investigation, including their work 
     executing lawful warrants; and
         (5) affirms that a founding principle of the United 
     States is that individuals settle differences through the 
     political process, not through the use or threat of violence.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 84 (Tuesday, May 17, 2022)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E513]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      RECOGNIZING THE 40-YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF THE WASHINGTON TIMES

                                 ______
                                 

                            HON. JOE WILSON

                           of south carolina

                    in the house of representatives

                         Tuesday, May 17, 2022

  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, I am grateful to 
recognize The Washington Times on their 40-year anniversary.
  Since its founding on May 17, 1982, The Washington Times has been a 
valuable resource by providing clear and informative articles on 
current events and national politics. I appreciate their continued 
service and look forward to reading their publication for many years to 
come.
  The following article, ``Washington Times' Only Agenda is the Agenda 
of its Readers,'' published May 16, 2022, by Christopher Dolan, 
President and Executive Editor, and Charles Hurt, Opinion Editor, 
encapsulates their years of journalistic accomplishments:

       Dear readers:
       For 40 years, The Washington Times has stood sentinel along 
     the banks of the Potomac River, shining a bright light into 
     all corners of the federal government.
       During Republican administrations and Democratic 
     administrations alike, the paper has been unflinching in 
     keeping its responsibility to inform readers and expose 
     government shenanigans.
       Long before ``fair and balanced'' became a battle cry and 
     the proliferation of websites spanning the political 
     spectrum, there was The Washington Times, beholden to no one 
     and no party.
       When Ronald Reagan stormed into Washington on a promise to 
     ``make America great again,'' The Washington Times was there 
     and chronicled the historic collapse of the Soviet Union.
       When George H.W. Bush won the Gulf War, only to later 
     stumble on his pledge of ``no new taxes,'' The Washington 
     Times was there.
       When a young, smooth-talking governor from Arkansas stunned 
     the political world, The Washington Times was there. And for 
     eight years, the paper produced award-winning political 
     coverage that culminated in President Clinton's impeachment 
     and investigations that to this day leave many questions 
     unanswered.
       During the epic 2000 presidential election recount in 
     Florida, The Times was there, counting chads and recording 
     every legal argument all the way to the Supreme Court.
       On Sept. 11, 2001, The Washington Times was there. And 
     never forgot.
       The Times stood watch from the triumphant march into 
     Baghdad to the bitter end of George W. Bush's presidency.
       The Times was there for the hopeful dawn of President 
     Obama's inauguration to the rejection of his presidency with 
     the election of Donald Trump.
       Of course, politics is the bread and butter of any 
     newspaper based in Washington. But The Times also has 
     invested unparalleled energies into covering the First 
     Amendment, religious freedom, American culture, gun rights 
     and social issues that many other newspaper shy from.
       The only agenda of The Washington Times is the agenda of 
     its readers. If it is important to you, it is important to 
     us. It has always been that way.
       Over the past four decades, tumultuous changes have wracked 
     the newspaper industry.
       Today, there is greater competition among news outlets--
     both in print and online--than ever before in human history. 
     The most vaunted and venerated publications must now compete 
     with any other outlet with a web address and a keyboard.
       But to this day, The Washington Times has never surrendered 
     its independence, its dedication to accuracy and its devotion 
     to the interests of its readers.
       Thank you for reading. We hope you will keep reading for 
     the next 40 years.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 113 (Monday, July 11, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3188-S3189]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                           U.S. Supreme Court

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, it is little wonder that the Senator 
from Kentucky is praising the Supreme Court. More than any other Member 
of the U.S. Senate, he has been instrumental in choosing the members of 
this Court and has gone to lengths unseen in the history of the U.S. 
Senate to reach that goal.
  Remember Merrick Garland, the nominee of President Barack Obama, whom 
this Senate leader, the Senator from Kentucky, refused to meet with or 
even consider for his nomination for almost a year? That is right--he 
kept a vacancy on the Supreme Court for more than 8 months so that he 
could perhaps see his prayers answered and a Republican President be 
elected.
  Well, it happened. Donald Trump won. Merrick Garland had no chance to 
even be considered. Barack Obama was denied the authority given to him 
as President during his last year of his term, and the Senator from 
Kentucky waited patiently until he could bring to the Court Justice 
Gorsuch, a conservative to his liking.
  That wasn't the end of his effort to make the Supreme Court what he 
wanted it to be. At the end of the Trump term, there was another 
vacancy on the Court with the death of Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and at that 
point, the Senator from Kentucky decided to break the rules in the 
opposite direction. It wasn't a slowdown this time in filling the 
vacancy; it was an acceleration, a speedup. In that instance, they 
broke most of the precedents in the Senate in terms of considering 
Supreme Court nominees for Amy Coney Barrett. So President Trump was 
able, thanks to the complicity of the Senator from Kentucky, to appoint 
three members of the Supreme Court.
  The rulings in the last several weeks are just what the Senator from 
Kentucky and others have prayed for: a reversal of the rights of 
American families across the board. Basically, the right to access to 
reproductive freedom for women in this country was attacked in a way 
that few thought would ever happen, and now we are living with the 
consequences.
  The Senator from Kentucky just said Democrats are trying to change 
the subject. I am not changing the subject. There will be a hearing 
before the Senate Judiciary Committee tomorrow on this decision by the 
Supreme Court on overturning Roe v. Wade.
  I want to say it is interesting that when the Senator from Kentucky 
is

[[Page S3189]]

looking for moral and academic support, he turns to an unheard-of 
professor from Yale to quote. He uses that professor as a source to 
say: Don't worry. Just because we took away the freedom of women when 
it comes to their reproductive health, we are not going to go so far as 
to address any decisions on contraception, family planning, and the 
like.
  Well, I might recommend to the Senator from Kentucky that he read the 
decision in Dobbs overturning Roe v. Wade and the concurring opinion 
from Justice Clarence Thomas, which said specifically that very thing. 
Now, he said, that we have done Roe v. Wade, it is time to look at 
cases that address the issue of privacy, the issue of same-sex 
marriage, and the issues of contraception, explicitly using those 
words.
  So to suggest that some Yale professor should be trusted more than 
this Justice on the Court who has given us fair warning is hard to 
understand.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 170 (Friday, October 28, 2022)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E1090-E1091]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     HONORING LYN HAWTHORNE HOWARD

                                 ______
                                 

                            HON. KEVIN BRADY

                                of texas

                    in the house of representatives

                        Friday, October 28, 2022

  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor the distinguished career 
and public service of my Texas constituent and good friend, Mrs. Lyn 
Hawthorne Howard. Lyn is a cherished business leader, philanthropist, 
community leader, and artist. Passionate about Texas history and 
culture, she has led significant efforts to restore and preserve 
historic buildings and homes in and around Conroe, Texas.
  Lyn was born in Shreveport, Louisiana. But as they say, she ``got to 
Texas as soon as she could.'' She attended Texas Woman's University, 
graduating with a degree in Education. Lyn was also a member of the 
famous Kilgore Rangerettes--one of America's most prestigious dance and 
drill teams. As a Rangerette, Lyn grew a deep appreciation for Texas 
culture as she traveled and performed throughout our great state.
  Lyn is a principled business leader, and her devotion to hard work 
has served as an inspiration to women all over Texas. Lyn broke through 
the glass windshield, becoming the first woman to own and manage a 
successful Toyota dealership. Invited to visit Japan with a group of 
American car dealers, the Toyota Company was surprised to learn there 
was a woman in the group. The company suggested she may be more 
comfortable participating in the tours arranged for ``dealers' wives.'' 
Confidently, Lyn replied, ``no, thank you,'' and reminded her Japanese 
hosts that she too was a car dealer and insisted on attending all the 
meetings with her fellow Toyota auto brokers. Another one of Lyn's 
successful business ventures was her investment in the San Antonio-
based LDS Telecom company. As a result of Lyn's leadership, she led the 
business to become a major telecom company in Texas, and she sold her 
stake in the early 1980s with tremendous results.
  Lyn always puts her community first, playing a vital role in 
preserving Texas's history. Recently, Lyn is devoted to preserving the 
history of Conroe, Texas. She purchased and restored the original home 
of Conroe city founder, Isaac Conroe and has played a leading role in 
several important historic preservation and restoration projects. She 
has long been a leader and organizer of Conroe's annual Founder's Day 
celebration.
  Lyn is also a passionate member of multiple historical preservation 
societies. In 2021, she was recognized as a fifty-year member of the 
Daughters of the Republic of Texas in two chapters: The Alamo Missions 
Chapter and The Judge Nathaniel Hart Davis Chapter.
  Lyn has been involved in beauty pageants for over forty years, 
winning titles of Miss United America Elite 2012 and Miss United Royal 
2013. She is also a talented singer, dancer, and painter. Always 
seeking new artistic challenges, Lyn recently became interested in 
sculpture which has become her latest passion. She has sculpted bronze 
busts of her husband and another bust of President Donald Trump which 
has been displayed in Washington. Currently, she is working on a 
sculpture of Conroe founder Isaac Conroe.

[[Page E1091]]

  For her decades of leadership and service, I am honored to recognize 
and commend Lyn for her many significant contributions to the Conroe 
community and the great state of Texas.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 1190 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 1190

 Expressing support for the designation of November 9, 2022, as ``Gold 
                          Star Father's Day''.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 21, 2022

  Mr. Johnson of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Thompson of 
    Mississippi, Ms. Moore of Wisconsin, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
McGovern, Ms. Norton, Ms. Tlaib, Ms. Dean, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, 
   Mr. Rush, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Loudermilk, Mrs. McBath, Mr. 
 Suozzi, Mr. Costa, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mrs. Lee of 
    Nevada, Ms. Strickland, Mr. Sires, Ms. Williams of Georgia, Ms. 
  Bourdeaux, Mr. Clyde, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Garbarino, Mr. Peters, Ms. 
  Wild, Mr. Carson, Mr. San Nicolas, Ms. Lee of California, and Mrs. 
 Hayes) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the 
                   Committee on Oversight and Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Expressing support for the designation of November 9, 2022, as ``Gold 
                          Star Father's Day''.

Whereas thousands of men and women have laid down their lives to defend the 
        liberty and soul of our Nation, and families of fallen members of the 
        Armed Forces have lost their loved ones in service to our country;
Whereas families of members of the Armed Forces demonstrate a different kind of 
        heroism, supporting children and family members while loved ones are 
        deployed, sacrificing holidays with members who are serving overseas, 
        and facing each day knowing their loved one might be in danger and could 
        never return home;
Whereas, before the Iraq war, the United States had lost over 1,300,000 members 
        of the Armed Forces during wartime, and, since October 2001, over 4,400 
        members of the Armed Forces have lost their lives serving this country, 
        leaving thousands of family members behind;
Whereas, in 2015, the Gold Star Fathers Act was signed into law to ensure Gold 
        Star Fathers were eligible for the same benefits guaranteed to mothers 
        of fallen or permanently disabled members of the Armed Forces, honoring 
        their sacrifice and loss, but this legislation did not designate a Gold 
        Star Father's Day;
Whereas, in 1936, Congress designated the last Sunday in September as Gold Star 
        Mother's Day;
Whereas President Donald Trump designated September 24, 2017, as Gold Star 
        Mother's and Family Day, and President Barack Obama proclaimed September 
        25, 2016, as Gold Star Mother's and Family Day;
Whereas, on March 24, 2017, the Georgia House of Representatives adopted House 
        Resolution 723, recognizing November 9 as Georgia Gold Star Father's 
        Day;
Whereas Father's Day honors and celebrates fatherhood and the unique bonds 
        between a father and his children; and
Whereas the goals of ``Gold Star Father's Day'' on November 9 are to--

    (1) honor and celebrate fathers who have lost children in service to 
the United States;

    (2) honor fathers of fallen members of the Armed Forces and recognize 
that they, as parents, have experienced extraordinary and unimaginable 
loss;

    (3) recognize the need to support families of members of the Armed 
Forces throughout the United States; and

    (4) honor the courage of fathers who understand the true price of 
freedom and now face Father's Day without their child or children: Now, 
therefore, be it

    Resolved, That the House of Representatives supports the 
designation of ``Gold Star Father's Day''.
                                 <all>
[House Report 117-491]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


117th Congress    }                                   {     Report
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
 2d Session       }                                   {     117-491

======================================================================
 
 RESOLUTION OF INQUIRY REQUESTING THE PRESIDENT AND DIRECTING ATTORNEY 
  GENERAL MERRICK B. GARLAND TO TRANSMIT, RESPECTIVELY, A COPY OF THE 
 AFFIDAVIT TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES RELATED TO THE RAID ON THE 
                            FORMER PRESIDENT

                                _______
                                

 September 22, 2022.--Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

                                _______
                                

    Mr. Nadler, from the Committee on the Judiciary, submitted the 
                               following

                             ADVERSE REPORT

                             together with

                             MINORITY VIEWS

                      [To accompany H. Res. 1325]

    The Committee on the Judiciary, to whom was referred the 
resolution (H. Res. 1325) of inquiry requesting the President 
and directing Attorney General Merrick B. Garland to transmit, 
respectively, a copy of the affidavit to the House of 
Representatives related to the raid on the former President, 
having considered the same, reports unfavorably thereon with 
amendments and recommends that the resolution as amended not be 
agreed to.

                                CONTENTS

                                                                   Page
Purpose and Summary..............................................     2
Background and Need for the Legislation..........................     2
Hearings.........................................................     5
Committee Consideration..........................................     5
Committee Votes..................................................     5
Committee Oversight Findings.....................................     7
Committee Estimate of Budgetary Effects..........................     7
New Budget Authority and Congressional Budget Office Cost 
  Estimate.......................................................     7
Duplication of Federal Programs..................................     7
Performance Goals and Objectives.................................     7
Advisory on Earmarks.............................................     7
Section-by-Section Analysis......................................     7
Minority Views...................................................     7

    The amendments are as follows:
  Strike all after the resolving clause and insert the 
following:

That President Joseph R. Biden is requested, and the Attorney General 
Merrick B. Garland is directed, to transmit to the House of 
Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of adoption of 
this resolution, a copy of the affidavit submitted for the warrant on 
former President Donald J. Trump to the extent that any such affidavit 
is within the possession of the President or the Department of Justice, 
respectively.

    Amend the title so as to read: Resolution of inquiry 
requesting President Joseph R. Biden and directing Attorney 
General Merrick B. Garland to transmit a copy of the affidavit 
to the House of Representatives related to the raid on former 
President Donald J. Trump.

                          Purpose and Summary

    H. Res. 1325 is a non-binding resolution of inquiry that 
requests President Joe Biden and directs Attorney General 
Merrick Garland to transmit to the House of Representatives a 
copy of the affidavit related to the raid on former President 
Donald J. Trump.

                Background and Need for the Legislation

    Resolutions of inquiry, if properly drafted, are given 
privileged parliamentary status in the House. This means that, 
under certain circumstances, a resolution of inquiry can be 
considered on the House floor even if the committee to which it 
was referred has not ordered the resolution reported and the 
majority party's leadership has not scheduled it for 
consideration. Clause 7 of House rule XIII requires the 
committee to which the resolution is referred to act on the 
resolution within 14 legislative days, or a motion to discharge 
the committee from consideration is considered privileged on 
the floor of the House. In calculating the days available for 
committee consideration, the day of introduction and the day of 
discharge are not counted.\1\ The 117th Congress operated under 
temporary procedures ``that effectively `turned off' the 14-day 
deadline'' for resolutions of inquiry until July 19, 2022.\2\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\Wm. Holmes Brown, et al., House Practice: A Guide to the Rules, 
Precedents, and Procedures of the House ch. 49, Sec. 6, p. 834 (2011).
    \2\Christopher M. Davis, Resolutions of Inquiry in the House, Cong. 
Rsch. Serv. 1 (Jul. 21, 2022), https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/
pdf/IN/IN10661/4.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Under the Rules and precedents of the House, a resolution 
of inquiry is a means by which the House requests information 
from the President of the United States or the head of one of 
the executive departments. According to Deschler's Precedents, 
it is a ``simple resolution making a direct request or demand 
of the President or the head of an executive department to 
furnish the House of Representatives with specific factual 
information in the possession of the executive branch.''\3\ 
Such resolutions must ask for facts, documents, or specific 
information; they may not be used to request an opinion or 
require an investigation.\4\ Resolutions of inquiry are not 
akin to subpoenas; they have no legal force and thus compliance 
by the Executive Branch with the House's request for 
information is purely voluntary.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \3\7 Deschler's Precedents of the United States House of 
Representatives, H. Doc. No. 94-661, 94th Cong., 2d Sess., ch. 24, 
Sec. 8.
    \4\A resolution that seeks more than factual information does not 
enjoy privileged status. Brown, supra note 1, at 833-34.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    According to a study conducted by the Congressional 
Research Service (CRS), between 1947 and 2017, 313 resolutions 
of inquiry were introduced in the House.\5\ Within this period, 
CRS found that ``two periods in particular, 1971-1975 and 2003-
2006, saw the highest levels of activity on resolutions of 
inquiry'' and that ``the Committees on Armed Services, Foreign 
Affairs, and the Judiciary have received the largest share of 
references.''\6\ CRS further found that ``in recent Congresses, 
such resolutions have overwhelmingly become a tool of the 
minority party in the House.''\7\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \5\Christopher M. Davis, Resolutions of Inquiry: An Analysis of 
Their Use in the House, 1947-2017, Cong. Rsch. Serv. R40879, at i (Nov. 
9, 2017), https://sgp.fas.org/crs/secrecy/R40879.pdf.
    \6\Id.
    \7\Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    A committee has a number of choices after a resolution of 
inquiry is referred to it. It may vote on the resolution up or 
down as introduced or it may amend it, and it may report the 
resolution favorably, unfavorably, or with no recommendation. 
The fact that a committee reports a resolution of inquiry 
adversely does not necessarily mean that the committee opposes 
looking into the matter. In the past, resolutions of inquiry 
have frequently been reported adversely for several reasons. 
The two most common reasons are substantial compliance and 
competing investigations.
    House Resolution 1325 was introduced by Representative Paul 
Gosar (R-AZ) on August 23, 2022. It requests a copy of the 
affidavit submitted for the warrant on former President Trump 
from President Biden and Attorney General Garland no later than 
14 days after the date of adoption of the resolution.
    The affidavit requested by this resolution was already 
released by the Department of Justice (DOJ) on August 26, 2022, 
three days after H. Res. 1325 was introduced. In it, the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) stated that it ``is 
conducting a criminal investigation concerning the improper 
removal and storage of classified information in unauthorized 
spaces, as well as the unlawful concealment and removal of 
government records,'' concluding that, ``Probable cause exists 
to believe that evidence, contraband, fruits of crime, or other 
items illegally possessed'' were on the premises of former 
President Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort.\8\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \8\``Over 180 classified docs removed by National Archives from 
Mar-a-Lago, affidavit says,'' NPR. Aug. 26, 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Former President Trump, is alleged to have left office with 
hundreds of classified documents, including some related to 
nuclear weapons programs, files with significantly limited 
access, and information from protected human intelligence 
sources.\9\ The National Archives and Records Administration 
engaged with former President Trump's team beginning in early 
2021 and asked DOJ to investigate in early 2022 after it 
received classified materials, found files that had been torn 
up, and realized that other important documents were 
missing.\10\ Before the FBI search on August 8, 2022, attorneys 
for President Trump claimed in writing that all classified 
documents had been removed from the Mar-a-Lago resort. This 
assertion was disproven after the FBI found over 100 classified 
documents in Donald Trump's offices and personal quarters at 
Mar-a-Lago.\11\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \9\Devlin Barrett, et al., ``FBI searched Trump's home to look for 
nuclear documents and other items, sources say,'' The Wash. Post. Aug. 
12, 2022.
    \10\Marshall Cohen, et al., ``Timeline: The Justice Department 
criminal inquiry into Trump taking classified documents to Mar-a-
Lago,'' CNN. Sep. 20, 2022.
    \11\Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Keeping the classified documents pertaining to the United 
States' national security in an unsecured office at a resort is 
dangerous to our national security. The state secrets Donald 
Trump took from the White House included information from human 
sources--the same individuals who are disappearing at a rapid 
rate for unknown reasons. In 2021, a top-secret CIA memo warned 
about troubling numbers of informants being captured or killed, 
including networks of human intelligence sources in China, 
Iran, and Pakistan.\12\ The precarious state of our national 
intelligence apparatus warrants increased security, which was 
not possible while these documents were stored at the Mar-a-
Lago Resort.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \12\Julian E. Barnes and Adam Goldman, ``Captured, Killed or 
Compromised: C.I.A. Admits to Losing Dozens of Informants,'' N.Y. 
Times. Oct. 5, 2021.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In spite of Donald Trump's multiple alleged violations of 
United States law, refusal to cooperate with DOJ investigators, 
and potential endangerment of American national security, 
conservatives in politics, on social media, and on cable news 
have viciously attacked FBI personnel. Florida Governor Ron 
DeSantis recently called the FBI investigation ``another 
escalation in the weaponization of federal agencies against the 
Regime's political opponents.''\13\ The sponsor of this 
resolution, Congressman Paul Gosar, tweeted, ``Failure is not 
an option. We must destroy the FBI.''\14\ Finally, members of 
the House Judiciary Committee have gone so far as to accuse the 
FBI and DOJ of weaponizing ``their powers against Americans who 
disagree with them politically''\15\ and ``acting as the 
political enforcers of the Democrat Party.''\16\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \13\Ron DeSantis (@RonDeSantisFL), Twitter (Aug. 8, 2022, 8:43 PM), 
https://twitter.com/RonDeSantisFL/status/
1556803433939755010?s=20&t=J5GO3C2WHo7A_Op9U1RWDg.
    \14\Paul Gosar (@PaulGosar), Twitter (Aug. 8, 2022, 9:57 PM), 
https://twitter.com/RepGosar/status/1556821907726630915.
    \15\Andy Biggs (@RepAndyBiggsAZ), Twitter (Aug. 9, 2022, 10:38 AM), 
https://twitter.com/RepAndyBiggsAZ/status/1557013466694778880.
    \16\Dan Bishop (@RepDanBishop), Twitter (Aug. 8, 2022, 8:51 PM), 
https://twitter.com/RepDanBishop/status/1556805300681940992.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Far right extremists on the internet have made increasingly 
violent threats against federal law enforcement since the FBI 
search of Mar-a-Lago on August 8, 2022. References on social 
media to terms like ``armed rebellion,'' ``revolution,'' ``lock 
and load,'' and ``civil war'' went up 106 percent in the month 
following the Mar-a-Lago search.\17\ These threats have 
included calls to ``take out'' specific FBI personnel and 
threats to the children of FBI agents, among other 
violence.\18\ These threats have also resulted in physical 
attacks. Three days after the FBI searched Mar-a-Lago, a right-
wing extremist Trump supporter attacked the FBI's Cincinnati 
field office with an AR 15-style rifle, and five days after the 
FBI search, armed protesters gathered outside the FBI field 
office in Phoenix, Arizona.\19\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \17\Elwood Watson, ``Violent threats increase in wake of Mar-A-Lago 
search,'' Midland Daily News. Sep. 7, 2022.
    \18\Jacob Rosen and Nicole Sgagna, ``Online violent extremist 
rhetoric soars after Mar-a-Lago search,'' CBS News. Aug. 12, 2022.
    \19\Joshua Zitser, ``Armed Trump supporters protest outside FBI 
office in Phoenix following Mar-a-Lago raid: reports,'' Business 
Insider. Aug. 14, 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Because of these threats and attacks, on August 12th, FBI 
and DHS released a joint bulletin warning of an increase in 
domestic terror threats against the FBI since the search of 
Donald Trump's offices at Mar-a-Lago, including ``an increase 
in violent threats posted on social media against federal 
officials and facilities, including a threat to place a so-
called dirty bomb in front of FBI Headquarters and issuing 
general calls for `civil war' and `armed rebellion.''\20\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \20\Olafimihan Oshin, ``FBI, DHS warn of increase in threats to 
federal law enforcement officials after Mar-a-Lago search: reports,'' 
The Hill. Aug. 14, 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The Judiciary Committee and the House should not needlessly 
request information that is already available to the public. 
Moreover, resolutions of inquiry should not be used to 
undermine ongoing investigations of wrongdoing, even when the 
person being investigated is the former President.

                                Hearings

    The Committee on the Judiciary held no hearings on H. Res. 
1325.

                        Committee Consideration

    On September 21, 2022, the Committee met in open session 
and ordered the resolution, H. Res. 1325 unfavorably reported 
with an amendment by a rollcall vote of 20 to 14, a quorum 
being present.

                            Committee Votes

    In compliance with clause 3(b) of House rule XIII, the 
following rollcall vote occurred during the Committee's 
consideration of H. Res. 1325:
    1. A motion to report H. Res. 1325 unfavorably passed by a 
rollcall vote of 20 to 14. The vote was as follows:


                      Committee Oversight Findings

    In compliance with clause 3(c)(1) of House rule XIII, the 
Committee advises that the findings and recommendations of the 
Committee, based on oversight activities under clause 2(b)(1) 
of House rule X, are incorporated in the descriptive portions 
of this report.

                Committee Estimate of Budgetary Effects

    Pursuant to clause 3(d) of House rule XIII, the Committee 
adopts as its own the cost estimate prepared by the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office pursuant to section 402 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

   New Budget Authority and Congressional Budget Office Cost Estimate

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(2) of House rule XIII and section 
308(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, and pursuant to 
clause 3(c)(3) of House rule XIII and section 402 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, the Committee has requested 
by not received from the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office a budgetary analysis and a cost estimate of this 
resolution.

                    Duplication of Federal Programs

    Pursuant to clause 3(c)(5) of House rule XIII, no provision 
of H. Res. 1325 establishes or reauthorizes a program of the 
federal government known to be duplicative of another federal 
program.

                    Performance Goals and Objectives

    The Committee states that pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of 
House rule XIII, H. Res. 1325 requests President Joe Biden and 
directs Attorney General Merrick Garland to transmit to the 
House of Representatives a copy of the affidavit related to the 
raid on former President Trump.

                          Advisory on Earmarks

    In accordance with clause 9 of House rule XXI, H. Res. 1325 
does not contain any congressional earmarks, limited tax 
benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in clause 9(e), 
9(f), or 9(g) of rule XXI.

                      Section-by-Section Analysis

    The following discussion describes the resolution as 
reported by the Committee.
    H. Res. 1325, a non-binding resolution of inquiry, requests 
President Biden and directs Attorney General Garland to 
transmit to the House of Representatives a copy of the 
affidavit related to the raid on former President Trump.

                             Minority Views

    H. Res. 1325 requests that President Biden, and directs 
Attorney General Merrick Garland to, provide a copy of the 
affidavit to the House of Representatives related to the FBI's 
raid of President Trump's private residence. This resolution 
will assist the Committee's oversight of the FBI's 
unprecedented raid of President Trump's residence--a shocking 
escalation of the Biden Administration's weaponization of law-
enforcement resources against its political opponents.
    On August 15, 2022, Committee Republicans wrote Attorney 
General Garland, FBI Director Christopher A. Wray, and White 
House Chief of Staff Ronald Klain requesting documents and 
communications related to the FBI's raid of President Trump's 
residence.\1\ The Department, FBI, and White House have all 
failed to comply with this request to date. During the 
Committee's business meeting to consider H. Res. 1325, Chairman 
Nadler misleadingly argued that ``the affidavit has now been 
made public,''\2\ ignoring that large portions of the publicly 
available affidavit remain heavily redacted. The unredacted 
affidavit is necessary to fully understand the basis for the 
FBI's unprecedented action and to conduct effective oversight 
of the federal law enforcement apparatus. The Committee should 
not have reported H. Res. 1325 unfavorably.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\See Letter from Rep. Jim Jordan et al, Ranking Member, H. Comm. 
on the Judiciary, to Hon. Merrick Garland, Atty Gen., U.S. Dep't of 
Justice (Aug. 15, 2022); Letter from Rep. Jim Jordan et al, Ranking 
Member, H. Comm. on the Judiciary, to Dir. Christopher Wray, Fed. 
Bureau of Investigation (Aug. 15, 2022); and Letter from Rep. Jim 
Jordan et al, Ranking Member, H. Comm. on the Judiciary, to Ronald 
Klain, Chief of Staff, White House (Aug. 15, 2022).
    \2\H. Res. 1238 et al., markup before the S. Comm. on Judiciary, 
117th Cong. (Sept. 14, 2022) (statement of the Hon. Jerrold Nadler, 
Chairman, H. Comm. on the Judiciary).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      THE FBI'S UNPRECEDENTED RAID

    On August 8, 2022, the FBI raided President Trump's Mar-a-
Lago residence in Palm Beach, Florida, purportedly to seize 
government and presidential records.\3\ In the process, the FBI 
seized numerous other materials such as books, magazines, 
newspapers, clothing and gifts, and privileged documents.\4\ 
This unprecedented raid occurred after months of ongoing 
discussions and negotiations between President Trump's 
representatives and the National Archives and Records 
Administration (NARA) about material from his time office.\5\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \3\Stephanie Pagones et al, FBI raids Trump's Mar-a-Lago: 
`Unprecedented' for agency to execute search warrant against former 
president, Fox News (AUG. 8, 2022); Deepa Shivram, Trump says FBI 
agents searched his Mar-a-Lago home in Florida, NPR (Aug. 8, 2022).
    \4\Sadie Gurman et al, Court Releases Detailed FBI Inventory of 
Material Seized at Trump's Mar-a-Lago, Wall St. J. (Sept. 2, 2022).
    \5\Order, Donald J. Trump v. U.S., No. 22-81294-CIV-CANNON at 2 
(S.D. Fla. Sept. 5, 2022); Motion for Judicial Oversight and Additional 
Relief, In the Matter of the Search of Mar-a-Lago, No. 22-cv-81294-AMC 
(S.D. Fla. Aug. 22, 2022).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The Biden Department of Justice has provided limited 
justification for this unprecedented action through a heavily 
redacted warrant affidavit and selective leaks to favored media 
outlets.\6\ The affidavit alleged probable cause to suspect 
evidence of violations of three federal crimes relating to 
federal records--misuse of national defense information; 
obstruction of justice by destroying, altering, or falsifying 
records related to a federal probe; and concealing, removing, 
or destroying protected federal documents.\7\ The affidavit 
also alleged probable cause to suspect of evidence of 
obstruction.\8\ However, the unredacted portions of the 
affidavit provide little context for these allegations and are 
wholly insufficient to support for the FBI's unprecedented 
action.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \6\See Devlin Barrett, Josh Dawsey, Perry Stein, & Shane Harris, 
FBI searched Trump's home to look for nuclear documents and other 
items, sources say, Wash. Post (Aug. 11, 2022); Maggie Haberman, Jodi 
Kantor, Adam Goldman, & Ben Protess, Trump Had More Than 300 Classified 
Documents at Mar-a-Lago, New York Times (Aug. 22, 2022).
    \7\Affidavit in support of an application under Rule 41 for a 
warrant to search and seize, In the Matter of the Search of: Locations 
Within the Premises to be Searched in Attachment A, p. 7-8 (S.D. Fla.) 
(unsealed Aug. 26, 2022, Sept. 13, 2022); see also 18 U.S.C. Sec. Sec.  
793, 2071, and 1519.
    \8\Id.; see also Editorial Board, The Mar-a-Lago Affidavit: Is That 
All There Is?, Wall St. J. (Sept. 12, 2022).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The Biden Department of Justice has hidden behind a formal 
policy of not commenting on the investigation, while it has 
simultaneously engaged in selective leaks of salacious 
accusations. On August 11, 2022, Attorney General Garland 
addressed the search for the first time, stating, ``I have made 
clear that the Department of Justice will speak through its 
court filings and its work.''\9\ On the same day, however, the 
Washington Post reported that FBI agents were seeking 
``classified documents relating to nuclear weapons,''\10\ 
according to leaks from ``people familiar with the 
investigation.'' The New York Times later reported that 
President Trump ``had more than 300 classified documents at 
Mar-a-Lago,'' according to leaks from ``people briefed on the 
matter.''\11\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \9\Press Release, Attorney General Merrick Garland Delivers 
Remarks, U.S. Department of Justice (Aug. 11, 2022).
    \10\Devlin Barrett, Josh Dawsey, Perry Stein, & Shane Harris, FBI 
searched Trump's home to look for nuclear documents and other items, 
sources say, Wash. Post (Aug. 11, 2022).
    \11\Maggie Haberman, Jodi Kantor, Adam Goldman, & Ben Protess, 
Trump Had More Than 300 Classified Documents at Mar-a-Lago, New York 
Times (Aug. 22, 2022).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The Department's affidavit and subsequent media leaks do 
not explain why a raid was necessary in light of ample evidence 
of cooperation. In January 2022, President Trump transferred 15 
boxes of documents from Mar-a-Lago to NARA.\12\ In February 
2022, NARA issued a public statement noting the cooperation of 
President Trump in the identification and submission of certain 
documents.\13\ In fact, his submission of material was over 
inclusive. According to NARA, this submission included personal 
and post-presidential records, along with presidential 
correspondence and documents with classification markings.\14\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \12\Id.
    \13\Press Release, Attorney General Merrick Garland Delivers 
Remarks, U.S. Department of Justice (Aug. 11, 2022).
    \14\Id. at 7-8.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Subsequently, in May 2022, President Trump voluntarily 
accepted service of a grand jury subpoena that sought documents 
bearing classification markings.\15\ Throughout June 2022, the 
Department and President Trump's lawyers engaged in discussions 
about the matter.\16\ On June 3, the FBI visited Mar-a-largo 
and President Trump allowed them to inspect his storage 
room.\17\ President Trump also provided responsive documents 
during the visit.\18\ On June 8, the FBI requested that 
President Trump further secure the storage room, which he 
did.\19\ President Trump also made his staff available for 
voluntarily interviews.\20\ On June 22, the FBI subpoenaed 
surveillance footage from cameras at Mar-a-Largo.\21\ The Trump 
Organization voluntarily accepted the subpoena and provided the 
footage.\22\ On September 13, a federal judge unsealed a some 
more portions of the affidavit--although still largely 
redacted--that showed President Trump had returned even more 
documents to the Department than previously known.\23\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \15\Id. at 3; see also Motion for Judicial Oversight and Additional 
Relief at 5, In the Matter of the Search of Mar-a-Lago, No. 22-cv-
81294-AMC (S.D. Fla. Aug. 22, 2022).
    \16\See generally, Motion for Judicial Oversight and Additional 
Relief at 5, In the Matter of the Search of Mar-a-Lago, No. 22-cv-
81294-AMC (S.D. Fla. Aug. 22, 2022).
    \17\Id. at 5.
    \18\Id.
    \19\Id. at 6.
    \20\Id.
    \21\Id.
    \22\Id.
    \23\Affidavit in support of an application under Rule 41 for a 
warrant to search and seize, In the Matter of the Search of: Locations 
Within the Premises to be Searched in Attachment A, p. 7-8 (S.D. Fla.) 
(unsealed Aug. 26, 2022, Sept. 13, 2022. (``Since the fifteen boxes 
were provided to [National Archives], documents bearing classifications 
markings, which appear to contain [national defense information] and 
were stored at the premises in an unauthorized location, have been 
produced to the government in response to a grand jury subpoena....'' 
``On July 6, 2022, in response to the subpoena [served on June 24, 
2022], representatives of the Trump Organization provided a hard drive 
to FBI agents.''). Id. at 2, 23.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Despite this cooperation, Attorney General Garland 
personally approved the decision to escalate the matter by 
seeking a warrant for excessive and unprecedented access to 
President Trump's private residence.\ 24\ FBI agents spent 
approximately nine hours rummaging through President Trump's 
personal belongings.\25\ They collected more than 11,000 
documents, more than 1,600 press articles and printed 
materials, 19 items of clothing or gifts, and 33 books.\26\ 
They also collected about 100 documents with classification 
markings.\27\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \24\Press Release, Attorney General Merrick Garland Delivers 
Remarks, U.S. Department of Justice (Aug. 11, 2022). During Garland's 
confirmation hearing, he vowed not to weaponize the Justice Department 
to target the Biden Administration's political opponents. Garland 
promised that the Justice Department (``will be under my protection for 
the purpose of preventing any kind of partisan or other improper motive 
in making any kind of investigation or prosecution. That's my vow. 
That's the only reason I'm willing to do this job.''). Jeremy Herb, 
Garland vows at confirmation hearing to keep politics out of DOJ while 
drawing bipartisan praise, CNN (Feb. 22, 2021).
    \25\Motion for Judicial Oversight and Additional Relief, In the 
Matter of the Search of Mar-a-Lago, No. 22-cv-81294-AMC at 8 (S.D. Fla. 
Aug. 22, 2022).
    \26\Samuel Chamberlain and Emily Crane, Detailed inventory of Trump 
Mar-a-Lago FBI raid released, N.Y. Post (Sept. 2, 2022).
    \27\Phillip Bump, Trump's classified Mar-a-Lago documents, 
catalogued, Wash. Post (Sept. 2, 2022).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      THE PRESIDENTIAL RECORDS ACT

    The FBI's unprecedented raid of President Trump's residence 
bears on the Presidential Records Act (PRA). Congress passed 
the PRA in 1981 at the beginning of President Ronald Reagan's 
first term.\28\ The PRA ``governs the collection and retention 
of records'' that were ``created or received by the President, 
the President's immediate staff, or a unit or individual of the 
Executive Office of the President,'' while conducting 
activities related to ``the constitutional, statutory, or other 
official or ceremonial duties of the President.''\29\ The 
statute considers these records property of the United States, 
not the relevant President.\30\ The PRA does not extend to a 
President's personal records, defined by the statute as 
``purely private or nonpublic'' records which include diaries, 
journals, materials directly related to the President's 
election or election of another individual, and ``materials 
relating to private political associations.''\31\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \28\David B. Rivkin Jr. & Lee A. Casey, The Trump warrant had no 
legal basis, Wall St. J. (Aug. 22, 2022).
    \29\See 44 U.S.C. Sec.  2201 (2014); Meghan M. Stuessy, Cong. 
Research Serv., IN12056, Presidential Records Management: Preservation 
and Disposal (2022).
    \30\Id.
    \31\Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    During a presidency, the President has the exclusive 
authority over presidential records.\32\ Following a 
presidency, the Archivist gains responsibility for the 
``custody, control, preservation, and access to presidential 
records.''\33\ The PRA gives a former president the right to 
access records from his presidency.\34\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \32\Meghan M. Stuessy, Cong. Research Serv., IN12056, Presidential 
Records Management: Preservation and Disposal (2022).
    \33\Id.
    \34\44 U.S.C. Sec.  2205(3) (2014).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Former Department of Justice and White House Counsel 
officials David Rivkin and Lee Casey argue that the PRA 
``guarantees a former president continuing access to his 
papers.''\35\ Rivkin and Casey note that the PRA does not 
address how presidential records are to be physically turned 
over to the Archivist ``leaving this matter to be negotiated 
between the archivist and the former president.''\36\ According 
to Rivkin and Casey, when making records available to the 
former president, the PRA does not distinguish between 
classified and unclassified material.\37\ They conclude that 
``the bureau could and should have sought a less intrusive 
judicial remedy than a search warrant--a restraining order 
allowing the materials to be moved to a location with the 
proper storage facilities, but also ensuring Mr. Trump 
continuing access.''\38\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \35\ David B. Rivkin Jr. & Lee A. Casey, The Trump warrant had no 
legal basis, Wall St. J. (Aug. 22, 2022).
    \36\Id.
    \37\Id.
    \38\Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                  THE APPOINTMENT OF A SPECIAL MASTER

    During the raid, ``privileged and/or potentially privileged 
documents were among the items taken from [President Trump's] 
home.''\39\ President Trump's lawyers subsequently filed a 
motion requesting the appointment of a special master, an 
independent third party often appointed to assist a court in 
complex litigation, to conduct the review to determine which 
documents were privileged. The filing raised Fourth Amendment 
concerns with the search, characterized the warrant as 
``overbroad,'' and requested a special master to ``protect the 
integrity of privileged documents.''\40\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \39\Motion for Judicial Oversight & Additional Review, In the 
Matter of the Search of Mar-a-Lago, No. 22-cv-81294-AMC (S.D. Fla. Aug. 
22, 2022). Id. at 3.
    \40\Id. at 10, 11, & 9.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The Department argued against the appointment of a special 
master, essentially arguing that the Biden Administration would 
adequately protect President Trump's right to protect 
privileged documents. The Department stated that ``the 
government's filter team has already completed its work of 
segregating any seized materials that are potentially subject 
to attorney-client privilege, and the government's 
investigative team has already reviewed all of the remaining 
materials, including any that are potentially subject to claims 
of executive privilege.''\41\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \41\United States' Response to Motion for Judicial Oversight & 
Additional Relief, Donald J. Trump v. U.S., No. 22-CV-81294-CANNON at 3 
(S.D. Fla. Aug. 30, 2022).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    On September 5, Judge Aileen Cannon ordered the appointment 
of a special master.\42\ Judge Cannon requested the Department 
and President Trump's lawyers submit a joint filing with a list 
of proposed candidates.\43\ The order rejected the Department's 
assurances that its Privilege Review Team caught all privileged 
material. Judge Cannon wrote that ``without drawing inferences, 
there is a basis on this record to question how materials 
passed through the screening process, further underscoring the 
importance of procedural safeguards and an additional layer of 
review.''\44\ In addition, Judge Cannon ordered the Department 
to halt the use of all documents seized in the raid.\45\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \42\Order, Donald J. Trump v. U.S., No. 22-81294-CIV-CANNON (S.D. 
Fla. Aug. 27, 2022)
    \43\Id.
    \44\Id. at 15, n. 13.
    \45\Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Commenting on the appointment of the Special master, 
Professor Jonathan Turley stated that:

          While it is admittedly less common to use a special 
        master in a criminal case, it is not ``unprecedented'' 
        for a court to conduct in camera reviews of seized 
        material. In this case, the court wants to use a 
        special master to perform that function. Moreover, 
        special masters are commonly appointed in the federal 
        courts in an array of cases where judges need 
        assistance in creating a record for a ruling on 
        motions.\46\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \46\Jonathan Turley, Federal judge orders appointment of special 
master and halts use of seized Mar-a-Lago material by prosecutors, Res 
IPSA Loquitur Blog (Sept. 6, 2022).

    While the Department is prohibited from using the documents 
at this time, the order ``does not halt the criminal 
investigation.''\47\ Professor Turley stated that Judge 
Cannon's ruling ``will not necessarily change the ultimate 
trajectory of the case but it will force critical reviews and 
rulings on issues from attorney-client privilege to executive 
privilege.''\48\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \47\Id.
    \48\Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               CONCLUSION

    Throughout the business meeting, Democrats failed to join 
Republicans in the Committee's constitutional duty to conduct 
oversight of the Executive Branch and obtain access to the 
unredacted affidavit. Rather than receive more facts and 
information about the FBI's unprecedented raid of President 
Trump's former residence, the Democrats wrongly voted to report 
H. Res. 1325 unfavorably to the House of Representatives. We 
strongly disagree with this action.
                                                Jim Jordan,
                                                    Ranking Member.

                                  [all]
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 7 (Tuesday, January 11, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S129-S130]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                   Recognition of the Majority Leader

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader is recognized.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, let me begin with the following figure: 
55 million people; that is the estimated number of eligible voters who 
now live within States that have passed legislation restricting the 
right to vote and potentially undermining the electoral process.
  Today, President Biden will travel to one such State, Georgia--home 
to one of the most egregious voter suppression and election subversion 
laws we have seen in a long time. I believe the President will give a 
strong speech and will urge that we in the Senate change the rules so 
that we can prevent these awful and nasty laws from being implemented. 
In an address to the Nation, he will use the bully pulpit of the 
Presidency to make the case that the time has come for the Senate to 
pass voting rights legislation and take whatever steps necessary to 
address this Chamber's rules in order to accomplish that goal.
  The Senate is going to act as soon as tomorrow. It is my intention 
to, once again, bring legislation to the floor to fight back against 
the threats to democracy and protect people's access to the ballot.
  Once again, I urge my Republican colleagues to take up the flag of 
the traditional Republican Party, not only of Lincoln but of Reagan and 
H. W. Bush and W. Bush and vote yes to move forward so we can have a 
debate like the debate we just had or the discussion we just had. But 
if Republicans continue to hijack the rules of the Senate to prevent 
voting rights from happening, if they continue paralyzing this Chamber 
to the point where we are helpless to fight back against the Big Lie, 
we must consider the necessary steps we can take so the Senate can 
adapt and act.
  For the past few months, Senate Democrats have been holding talks 
within our caucus to discern how we can best move forward to restore 
the function of the Senate and, more importantly, pass legislation to 
defend democracy and protect voting rights. Last night, I held another 
round of talks with a number of my colleagues about the path forward, 
and we did so again this morning.
  Over the past few days, our Republican colleagues have escalated 
their attacks against our efforts to pass voting rights legislation.
  Listen to this one: Last night, the Republican leader worked to place 
a number of ``gotcha'' bills onto the legislative calendar as some sort 
of payback for pursuing legislation to protect the sacred right to 
vote. He was basically saying: Here are 18 bills that Democrats don't 
like. Let's go for 50 votes on those. Well, I proposed to the 
Republican leader, in a unanimous consent request, that it would be 
perfectly fine with us taking votes on his bills on a simple majority 
threshold if, in exchange, he agreed to do the same for the Freedom to 
Vote Act and the John R. Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act. Of 
course, the Republican leader immediately objected--immediately 
objected--to having all of them done with 50 votes: the 18 bills he 
proposed and our 2 voting rights bills.
  The Republican leader made clear last night that the true worry on 
the other side isn't about the rules of the Senate--rules they were 
perfectly happy to change to pursue their own objectives when they were 
in the majority. Republicans, in truth, are afraid of the possibility 
that legislation to defend democracy, to fight the power of dark money, 
and to protect voting rights could move forward in this Chamber.
  As I mentioned to my colleague from Texas, that is not all 
Republicans. That is not Republicans out in the country--a lot of them 
want to protect voting rights--but it is the Republican Party as now 
run by, and it is fair to say run by Donald Trump, who has propagated 
the Big Lie that the election was stolen and that he really won, even 
though he lost by 7 million votes and even though he has no evidence--
nor have the commentators to that effect. Now we have at least 
Republicans in the Senate and the House and in lots of State 
legislatures completely going along with this Big Lie.
  The danger there is that it jaundices our democracy. If people of 
color, if young people, if older people, if people in urban areas feel 
that their right to vote is being diminished compared to other 
people's--because they are not aiming this at everybody--democracy 
begins to wither. We have not seen an assault on voting rights since 
the days of the Old South, since the forties and fifties and sixties 
and seventies. Why would we want to regress? Why would we want to 
regress? So we must fight back.
  Now, I understand our Republicans are going to continue their 
opposition through a flurry of speeches, decrying any effort 
by Democrats to undo these voter suppression laws and make it easier 
for Americans to vote.

  By the way, I would remind my colleagues that this has been the grand 
tradition of America. When the Constitution was written, in most 
States, you had to be a White male Protestant property owner to vote. 
No one says let's go back to those days. In general, America, with our 
march to freedom and our march to equality, embodied in our 
Constitution and in the great minds of the Founding Fathers--the 
greatest group of geniuses ever assembled--has marched forward. There 
have been regressions, but we have marched forward. We Democrats want 
to continue that march. We want to stop these types of laws.
  The Republican leader doesn't have much to say so he has latched onto 
a talking point. He said the Big Lie is actually the warnings of voter 
suppression that come from Democrats, even though there are so many 
laws that are, obviously, done to suppress votes, and a lot of these 
Republican legislators say it openly.
  So I would say to the Republican leader that his attempts to 
misdirect from the danger of Donald Trump's Big Lie and to try to say 
it is Democrats who are doing it is gaslighting, pure and simple. There 
is no evidence--no evidence.
  The leader did it again yesterday and today on the floor, implying 
one more time that because the 2020 election was, indeed, successful, 
somehow voter suppression doesn't exist. Now, I answered my friend from 
Texas when he held up that chart. The Republican leader cherry-picked 
examples to distract from the real, unmistakable changes that are 
taking place in the States.
  I would ask the Republican leader and the Republican Senator from 
Texas and every other Republican, if the 2020 election were as 
successful and secure and safe as he says it was, then why have 
Republican State legislators rushed to make it harder for people to 
vote in the aftermath of the 2020 election? Why can any Republican 
cling to the view that the election was stolen--Donald Trump's Big 
Lie--when John Cornyn, my friend from Texas, is up there, with a chart, 
saying the 2020 election was successful, and the Republican leader said 
the same thing?
  Doesn't that rebut Donald Trump? Doesn't that rebut those who came to 
the Capitol, motivated by Donald Trump's propagation of the Big Lie? 
Doesn't it rebut all of the State legislators who want to make it 
harder to vote if the 2020 election were successful?
  Despite the Republican leader's best efforts, I have yet to hear from 
my Republican colleagues as to why it is OK for States like Georgia to 
make it a crime to give food and water to people who are waiting on 
line at the polls when we hear that, in minority areas and in urban 
areas, the lines are much longer than in rural areas.
  I have yet to hear from Republicans why States like Texas and Arizona 
have made it a felony--a felony--for nonpartisan election workers to 
send

[[Page S130]]

unsolicited mail ballot applications to voters. What is wrong with 
sending that? What is wrong with encouraging people to vote? The 
participation in elections is much higher in many Western countries 
than in ours.
  Again, Texas didn't just prohibit nonpartisan election workers from 
sending mail ballots out to voters. They made it a felony--a felony. 
These States have effectively made it a crime--a crime--for election 
workers to proactively help people to vote. Where is the justification?
  Where is the evidence of this massive fraud that Donald Trump talks 
about? No one gives any. Yet they predicate their policy moves here in 
the Senate on that.
  To date, I have heard no explanation from the other side why States 
like Texas, Iowa, and Montana have reduced polling locations and hours. 
In Iowa, early voting of any kind has been cut by 9 days. How does that 
make the election more secure? Why is that in the grand tradition of 
making it easier for Americans to vote?
  In Georgia, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, the 
leading newspaper of Atlanta, the number of absentee drop boxes in four 
large counties in Atlanta, in the Atlanta area, will drop from 111 to 
23--111 to 23. One of the justifications is that these boxes are no 
longer helpful, but this ignores the fact that over 300,000 voters used 
them in the last election--the last successful election, according to 
my friend from Texas. Republicans know that most of the people who used 
those drop boxes, of course, were Democrats. They tend to use them 
more, and that is why they are cutting them off.
  The examples go on and on, unfortunately. This is not just a one-off 
or in one State or another. This is a massive campaign, which, if we do 
nothing, will continue and get worse.
  States like Texas, Florida, Kansas, Iowa, New Hampshire, and Montana 
have passed laws making it harder--harder--to register to vote.
  States like Alabama, Iowa, and Texas have passed laws that increase 
the potential for people with disabilities.
  And, again, in Georgia, one rural county, Lincoln County, is trying 
to limit their polling places to just one in the whole county--just one 
place to vote for an entire county--causing people to potentially drive 
as many as 23 miles to cast a ballot. This wouldn't make voting easier. 
It turns it into a burden.
  The truth is, our Republicans can't defend these laws. They are not 
going to mention them here today. Let's hear some Republicans defend 
these laws and point to evidence of the massive fraud that they say 
motivates them to do it. It is bunk--bunk.
  The policies they have put forward have one purpose--one purpose 
only: making it harder for younger, poorer, non-White, and typically 
Democratic voters to access the ballot, to give Republicans a partisan 
advantage at the polls by making it harder for democratic-leaning 
voters to vote.
  Again, in a democracy, when you lose an election, you figure out why 
and try to win over the voters you lost. You don't stop the voters you 
lost from voting. That is what happens in autocracies, in places like 
Hungary, where Donald Trump just endorsed Orban, who is whittling away 
at democracy in Hungary.
  It is cynical--cynical--for our Republican colleagues to argue that 
just because these voter suppression laws don't spell their intentions 
out in the open, that there is nothing sinister at play. But these laws 
have real impact, potentially divisive.
  In Arizona, Mr. President, your State, the secretary of state has 
concluded that new laws could purge as many as 200,000 voters from 
their early voting list. And as you know better than me, Arizona has a 
long tradition of early and mail-in voting that, I think, was set up by 
Republicans, if I am not wrong.
  In Georgia, over 1.3 million voters used absentee ballots in the last 
election, which could now be affected by the restriction.
  Senate Democrats in Iowa argue that if today's voter suppression laws 
had been in effect in 2020, over 6,500 absentee ballots would not have 
been counted in the last election.
  This isn't all that difficult to comprehend. When you pass laws that 
raise barriers to voting, fewer people end up voting. That is a fact. 
So as the President will say later, we are approaching a decisive 
moment for the country.
  Voting rights, defending democracy have long been bipartisan issues 
in this Chamber. The Voting Rights Act of 1964 is one of the crowning 
achievements not only of the civil rights era but of the history of 
this Chamber. It is in no way a power grab to say the Senate will pass 
laws that make it easier, simpler, and safer for American citizens to 
exercise their most fundamental right. That has been part of the grand 
tradition of this country--usually, as I mentioned several times 
before, bipartisan.
  I will add: As we proceed, we cannot hang our hats on the false hopes 
of inadequate or sometimes chimerical solutions.
  Substituting the Electoral Count Act for the much needed reforms that 
we have in the Freedom to Vote and John Lewis Voting Rights Act is 
insufficient, unacceptable. Obviously, it doesn't affect the House and 
Senate. Obviously, it is not immediately urgent because it affects 
2024. But most importantly, scorekeeping matters little if the game is 
rigged, and the game is in danger of being rigged if State Republicans 
empower themselves to arbitrate the results of future elections instead 
of it being arbitrated by what traditionally has happened in America by 
nonpartisan election workers.
  So we need to work in this Chamber to pass real solutions that go to 
the heart of the problem. We need to proceed with the John Lewis Voting 
Rights Act. We need to proceed with the Freedom to Vote Act.
  All of us in this Chamber must make a choice about how we will do our 
part to preserve our democratic Republic. We can't be satisfied in 
thinking that democracy will win out in the end if we are not willing 
to put in the work to defend it.
  So we need to pass these bills so our democracy can long endure after 
this present danger. To continue blocking these efforts is to offer an 
implicit endorsement of Donald Trump's Big Lie, which, unfortunately, 
is alive and well in 2022.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Alabama.
  Mr. TUBERVILLE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to complete my 
remarks before the scheduled recess.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 123 (Monday, July 25, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3619-S3627]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LEGISLATIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

  SERGEANT FIRST CLASS HEATH ROBINSON HONORING OUR PROMISE TO ADDRESS 
                    COMPREHENSIVE TOXICS ACT OF 2022

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under the previous order, the 
Senate will resume consideration of the House message to accompany S. 
3373, which the clerk will report.
  The legislative clerk read as follows:

       House message to accompany S. 3373, a bill to improve the 
     Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant and the Children of Fallen 
     Heroes Grant.

  Pending:

       Schumer motion to concur in the House amendment to the 
     bill.
       Schumer motion to concur in the House amendment to the 
     bill, with Schumer amendment No. 5148 (to the House amendment 
     to the Senate amendment), to add an effective date.
       Schumer amendment No. 5149 (to Schumer amendment No. 5148), 
     to modify the effective date.
       Schumer motion to refer the bill to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, with instructions, Schumer amendment No. 
     5150, to add an effective date.
       Schumer amendment No. 5151 (to the instructions (Schumer 
     amendment No. 5150) of the motion to refer), to modify the 
     effective date.
       Schumer amendment No. 5152 (to amendment No. 5151), to 
     modify the effective date.


                   Recognition of the Majority Leader

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The majority leader is recognized.


                       Business Before the Senate

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, the Senate gavels back in for another 
busy week of an exceedingly busy work period. There is a lot we must 
continue working on to lower costs for the American people; strengthen 
healthcare and prescription drug costs, make sure they are low; confirm 
highly qualified nominees; protect our fundamental rights; and fortify 
U.S. national security interests. None of this is easy, but we are 
moving ahead.
  In a few hours, the Senate will take another important step towards 
finally passing our bipartisan chips and innovation bill by voting to 
invoke cloture.

[[Page S3620]]

After more than a year of hard work on fixing U.S. chip supplies and 
boosting American scientific innovation, we are on the brink of closing 
the book and passing these critical investments into law.
  If cloture is invoked, Members should plan to vote on final passage 
as early as tomorrow evening or Wednesday.
  When signed into law, the impacts of this bipartisan chips and 
innovation bill will last years, if not decades. It will mean an 
increase in American jobs, increased manufacturing here at home, relief 
for our supply chains, and lower costs for the American people.
  Of course, we will also preserve America's security interests. One of 
the most important struggles of this century will be the fight for 
global semiconductor supply. Sadly, America is lagging behind. A recent 
article from the Wall Street Journal revealed that the Chinese 
Communist Party is planning 31 major semiconductor fabs planned over 
the next few years in a bid to become the world's leader in new chip 
factories. American chip producers are working hard to match this 
output, but they are waiting for Congress to finish work on this bill. 
Tens of billions of dollars and countless good-paying jobs are at 
stake. For that reason, I am glad we are close to pushing this bill 
over the goal line.
  Of course, there is a lot more to celebrate about this bill. The 
bipartisan science provisions--many of which I authored in partnership 
with Senator Young under the Endless Frontier Act more than 2 years 
ago--will unleash a new wave of American scientific innovation that 
will last and create millions of good-paying jobs for decades to come.
  We will invest tens of billions to strengthen the National Science 
Foundation and plant seeds to cultivate the tech hubs of tomorrow in 
regions of the country that have tremendous potential but have long 
been overlooked. When we invest in science jobs, that will keep America 
No. 1.
  For decades, the United States was consistently the world leader in 
innovation and scientific research because we made the investments 
necessary to stay on top, and the result was millions and millions of 
good-paying jobs that made us the strongest economy on Earth, the envy 
of the world. In the last decade, unfortunately, we have slipped from 
our place on the mountaintop. This bill will help us recapture that 
goal and that dream.
  The 21st century will be won or lost on the battleground of 
technological innovation. This is perhaps the most competitive era in 
human history. Will American workers, will American tech, will American 
ingenuity shape the world over the next hundred years in the same way 
that we have shaped it in the last hundred?
  I believe we can. I believe we must. When we pass this bill, I 
believe we will. Let's move forward today.


                               Healthcare

  Madam President, now on healthcare reforms and reconciliation: Senate 
Democrats continue our work to advance legislation that will lower 
costs and improve the lives of tens of millions of American families.
  Last week, Democrats and Republicans held our bipartisan prescription 
drugs Byrd bath meetings with the Parliamentarian. As a reminder, this 
important preliminary step will clear the way for passing our reforms 
through the reconciliation process. I want to thank Chairs Wyden, 
Sanders, and Murray and the tireless work of their Finance, Budget, and 
HELP Committee staffs for working around the clock on this important 
effort.
  If you want to fight inflation, then you should support passing this 
much needed proposal on lowering prescription drug costs. Here is why: 
For the first time ever, we will empower Medicare to negotiate the 
price of many expensive and vital prescription drugs, directly lowering 
what patients and taxpayers pay for these drugs. We will cap Americans' 
out-of-pocket drug expenses to $2,000 a year. Medicare will offer free 
vaccines and additional support for the low-income elderly. And, 
crucially, we will ensure that millions don't see their healthcare 
premiums skyrocket in the coming months.
  Let me say it again because it is key, and I say it to our Republican 
colleagues across the aisle. If you want to help Americans better 
afford their healthcare and medications, then you should support 
passing this bill.
  United States citizens pay more, on average, for prescription drugs 
than any other people on Earth, all for the exact same medicines that 
other countries use. The Democratic plan will finally help change that.
  Too many in this country find themselves in the confounding indignity 
of having to choose between getting their prescription drugs filled or 
putting food on the table for their families. The Democrats' plan will 
finally help change that.
  And even as working Americans struggle to afford high-quality 
healthcare and medications, the Nation's largest pharmaceutical 
companies face little accountability for jacking up prices on 
consumers. Again, the Democrats' plan will help change that.
  For months, we have heard Republicans complain and complain about the 
need to lower costs for the American people. Well, Democrats will 
present the Senate with a proposal that will do precisely that in a 
very big way. What will they choose on the other side of the aisle? 
Will they work with us to lower the costs for prescription medications? 
Will they shore up our healthcare system and prevent devastating price 
hikes? Will they finally join us holding Big Pharma accountable?
  This isn't complicated. Senators can vote to lower costs, or they can 
vote for higher costs. The American people will be watching.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The Republican leader is recognized.


                               Inflation

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, for the past year and a half, 
Washington Democrats have continually found new ways to be wrong about 
the U.S. economy. Last springtime, Democrats insisted their plan to 
dump $1.9 trillion onto the economy would not cause inflation.
  Here was the Democratic leader in March of 2021:

       I do not think the dangers of inflation, at least in the 
     near term, are very real.

  And here was President Biden:

       The biggest risk is not going too big . . . it's if we go 
     too small.''

  Well, obviously, they were entirely wrong. Their reckless spending 
fueled the worst inflation in 40 years. As Ms. Alvarado, a teacher and 
mother of three, explained to a reporter--here is what she said:

       When I say, ``OK, we cannot buy anything this week or else 
     we'll go into overdraft,'' [my husband] says, ``No, what are 
     you talking about? We're both working. That shouldn't 
     happen.''

  Well, it shouldn't have happened, but it is exactly what Democrats' 
policies have inflicted on working families in this country.

       Every time I fill up our van, I'm flabbergasted--

  Ms. Alvarado explains--

       I'm always worrying. . . . I can postpone the mortgage by 
     two weeks, but then it becomes two more weeks, and then all 
     of a sudden they're calling you.

  After Democrats' policies that did cause inflation, they moved on to 
their next wrong prediction. President Biden admitted inflation did, in 
fact, exist but said it was ``expected to be temporary.'' That one 
didn't work out either. That was over a year ago.
  Then, 7 months ago, in early December, President Biden promised 
inflation had peaked--wrong again. It didn't peak in December. It just 
kept getting worse. Inflation set a fresh new 40-year high just last 
month.
  These same folks are preparing for yet another battle against 
reality. In advance of the GDP numbers coming out later this week, the 
Biden administration has begun their latest project: a frantic effort 
to redefine the word ``recession.'' The White House published a whole 
explanation insisting that even if the new data suggested our country 
is in recession, we actually won't be.
  It is almost beyond satire. The White House isn't focusing their 
energies on

[[Page S3621]]

correcting their mistakes and making the economy better for working 
families who are hurting. Instead, their priority is telling everybody 
things aren't as bad as they look or feel. They want working Americans 
like Ms. Alvarado to believe Democrats' spin instead of their own lying 
eyes.
  I guess the whopping 42 percent of Americans who say they are 
struggling to stay where they are financially are supposed to read the 
White House press release and cheer up. The same people who said 
inflation wouldn't happen and then said it would be transitory and then 
said it had peaked last year are now insisting we aren't heading into a 
recession. Well, draw your own conclusions.


                        Prescription Drug Costs

  Madam President, on another matter, staring down the barrel of the 
economic disaster they have created, Washington Democrats still don't 
appear to be pumping the brakes on their reckless agenda. For example, 
the same Democrats who spent our country into inflation are now angling 
to regulate our medical cures industry into fewer new cures and fewer 
lifesaving treatments.
  American researchers and manufacturers are the driving force behind 
cutting-edge treatments that the entire world relies on. American 
innovators are leading the races to cure terminal illnesses like 
Parkinson's and Alzheimer's.
  The entire world benefits from our genius, but, in particular, the 
American people get first and fastest access to the latest new 
treatments, cures, and medical marvels. But the Democrats' pursuit of 
prescription drug socialism could put all of this at risk.
  Arbitrary, top-down, government price controls would dry out the 
wells of American innovation to the tune of hundreds of billions of 
dollars in lost research and development, and American patients would 
feel the pain. The cost of breakthrough cures is measured in dollars, 
but the cost of neglecting them would be measured in lost years of 
American life.
  One academic analysis pegged that true cost at a cumulative 331.5 
million years.
  Let me say that again: One expert says the negative effects of 
Democrats' proposal on medical research would cost a collective total 
of 331.5 million cumulative years of life.
  In other words, their proposal would eventually destroy as many years 
of Americans' lives as there are Americans to live them.
  Just 2 years ago, Democrats were lining up with Republicans and the 
rest of the country to cheer the American researchers and innovators 
who were driving the race for a COVID-19 vaccine--a race they finished 
in record time.
  The American people know what it looks like when lifesaving advances 
happen right here at home. Unfortunately, they may be about to find 
what happens when they don't.


                                 Burma

  Madam President, now, on one final matter, over the weekend, Burma's 
long and difficult struggle toward democracy and freedom took another 
dark step backward. The brutal military junta controlling Burma 
executed--executed--four political prisoners, including the well-known 
activist Ko Jimmy and Phyo Zeya Thaw, a former elected official and 
protest musician--yet more innocent bloodshed for the crime of 
dissenting against the junta's illegitimate rule.
  This is yet another atrocity in a long list of horrors committed by 
the junta with no legitimacy, no regard for the sanctity of human life, 
and no respect for its fellow citizens. It provides even further 
evidence that the junta does not fear any consequences for its 
actions--not from internal chaos, not from civil war, not from its 
neighbors, not from the so-called international community.
  The United States has led efforts to support Burma's people and to 
impose costs and consequences on the junta. Clearly, it is time for 
Burma's neighbors to shoulder a larger burden as well. It is time for 
ASEAN states to step up, individually and collectively.
  As the junta plunges Burma deeper into chaos and civil war, the 
turmoil will affect the entire region. It is Burma's neighbors who have 
the most economic influence over the junta, and it is Burma's neighbors 
who have the most at stake.
  Do they want a failed state wracked by civil war like Syria on their 
borders? Do they want a Russian- or Chinese-backed client state in 
their midst?
  If they will not step up and impose meaningful costs on the junta, 
the Biden administration should use authorities already given to it by 
Congress to sanction Burma's energy sector, including Myanmar Oil and 
Gas Enterprise, notwithstanding the concerns of those neighbors.
  The people of Burma are risking their lives and, in some cases, 
losing their lives to defend their freedom. The Biden administration 
claims to prioritize democracy and human rights in its foreign policy. 
Here is an opportunity to demonstrate that it means what it says.
  So in sum, it is time for Burma's neighbors to act. If they do not, 
the Biden administration should sanction Burma's energy and other major 
sources of revenue for the junta.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The majority whip.


                           January 6 Hearings

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, like 17 million other Americans, I 
watched the January 6 committee in its latest session last Thursday 
night. For 2 hours, I was there watching closely as they presented 
witnesses and evidence of the obvious. It reminded me that our 
committee--the Senate Judiciary Committee--last October released a 
report that showed in alarming detail how former President Donald Trump 
tried to bully the Justice Department into overturning an election 
which he lost.
  Our report showed just how aggressively the defeated President tried 
to hold on to power, how some with the Justice Department were actually 
conspiring to help him, and how hard the Department's leadership had to 
work to prevent Trump's illegal scheme from succeeding.
  We knew when we produced our report that it was just one chapter in 
an intricate plot to subvert America's democracy.
  In eight public hearings over the last 6 weeks, the House Select 
Committee to Investigate the January 6 Attack on the U.S. Capitol has 
laid out in clear and chilling detail more chapters in the plot to 
overturn the 2020 Presidential election.
  The facts are damning. What makes them even more shocking and 
credible is that they have been revealed, under oath, not by former 
President Trump's political foes but by people who once believed in 
him--people who worked with him for years, close aides, advisers, even 
his own family members.
  I am sure you remember January 6, 2021. Those of us who were in this 
Chamber will never forget it.
  We were here in the Senate to count the electoral ballots forwarded 
from the States to the Senate and the House to confirm the results of 
the 2020 Presidential election. We heard the furious mob outside. They 
attacked Capitol Police officers with hockey sticks, iron bars, toxic 
bear spray, flagpoles--whatever weapons they could find. The Trump mob 
was on the march. They smashed windows and doors, broke into this 
Capitol Building.
  Capitol Police officers ordered the Senators to evacuate the Chamber 
immediately. I remember it well. They first told us: Well, wait here. 
This will be a safe room. Ten minutes later, they said: Leave through 
these back doors as quickly as you can; the mob has taken over the 
Capitol. We rushed to a secure location.
  For hours, as the Capitol Police and DC Metropolitan Police battled 
the mob in brutal hand-to-hand combat, we asked the same questions: 
Where is the protection? Where is the National Guard? Where is the 
President? Donald Trump set this carnage in motion by riling up his 
supporters with the Big Lie and ordering them to march on the Capitol. 
We thought to ourselves, Why won't he tell them to stop? This has gone 
too far.
  The public hearings of the January 6 Committee have answered the 
question in frightening detail. Where was the President? We now know 
from last Thursday's hearing, Donald Trump knew within 15 minutes of 
finishing his remarks that the mob was on its way to attack this 
building and the people inside. What did he do? What did Donald Trump 
do for 3 hours 7 minutes? He sat in his private dining room next to the 
Oval Office watching the violence

[[Page S3622]]

on TV. He refused to contact his national security leaders to defend 
the Capitol of the United States of America. He refused pleas from 
congressional leaders of both parties, from his own staff and family, 
from his allies in the media at FOX News to call off the mob. He 
refused to walk less than 60 seconds to the White House briefing room 
to make a simple statement asking for the violence to stop. He was 
silent, and he watched FOX News every second of that 3 hours 7 minutes.
  We learned that members of Vice President Pence's Secret Service 
detail actually thought that they might die as they confronted this 
mob. As some of those agents made what they feared might be their last 
calls to their families to tell them that they loved them, President 
Donald Trump sent out a tweet telling the mob Vice President Pence had 
betrayed them. Instead of calming the riot, Donald Trump poured 
gasoline on the fire.
  Illinois Representative Adam Kinzinger, a Republican member of the 
January 6 Committee, summed it up well. He said:

       Trump didn't fail to act . . . he chose not to act.

  Only when it was clear that his coup had failed did Donald Trump 
reluctantly record a video telling his supporters to leave the Capitol 
and go home. And he carefully chose his words--we can tell from the 
outtakes--not to concede the Big Lie. There was not a word of 
condemnation about the violence, not a word of concern for the police 
officers who battled that mob to protect our safety and our democracy. 
More than 140 police officers--Capitol Police, DC Metropolitan Police--
suffered serious injuries on January 6. Where is this President who 
loved law and order? Silently watching on FOX.
  Over the next few days and weeks, sadly, several officers who 
defended the Capitol died. Not a word from former President Trump.
  In the committee's earlier hearings, we learned how the President had 
ignored his own aides and advisers and relentlessly pressed false 
claims of voter fraud, listening to his ``gifted'' legal counsel, Rudy 
Giuliani, even when he was told repeatedly that these claims were 
wrong.
  We learned how he pressured Vice President Pence to go along with the 
plan to overturn his loss even after he was told by the experts around 
him: President Trump, it would be illegal.
  We learned how President Trump pressed elected leaders in key States 
to change the vote totals in their States. When that failed, he pressed 
allies to send false slates of electors that would make him the winner.
  He learned how to summon a mob to Washington and turned them loose on 
this building, even after being told the mob was carrying weapons. And 
even after all the harm his Big Lie has done to our democracy, he is 
still relentlessly peddling it.
  Outtakes aired by the House committee last week showed on the day of 
insurrection, he still refused to say the election is over. This little 
man just can't bring himself to accept reality.
  Wisconsin's Assembly Speaker, who happens to be a Republican, said 
Donald Trump called him to urge him to overturn the State's vote in the 
2020 election. When did he call him? Two weeks ago. He is still on a 
rampage.
  The Senate will soon consider a bipartisan Electoral Count Reform Act 
to make it plain that a Presidential election cannot be overturned by 
wrongful partisan interference by a Vice President or any State or 
congressional officials. I support this effort. Senators Klobuchar, 
King, and I offered our own ideas several months ago on this 
anticipated Electoral Count Act reform. I hope that this bipartisan 
effort can get 60 votes in the Senate.

  I hope that 10 Republicans will join us in modernizing this law so it 
works for today. It was written in haste in the middle of political 
controversy in the 19th century. Some of the sections of that law are 
almost unintelligible. Let's clarify it. Let's give the American people 
an assurance that we learned a lesson on January 6, 2021, and in the 
election that preceded it. And in that lesson, we learned that the 
American people want their votes to count accurately, honestly, and 
fairly.
  Ultimately, however, the only way we can protect our elections and 
our democracy is by respecting the rule of law and the will of the 
American people and telling them the truth. By laying out the truth 
clearly for the American people and for history, the January 6 
Committee is performing an invaluable public service. They deserve our 
respect.
  One closing comment. There wasn't supposed to be a committee in the 
House. Madam President, you remember and I do, too, the proposal was 
for a bipartisan Commission to be created to investigate this travesty 
on January 6 as they investigated 9/11--take politics out of it, take 
elected officials out of it, bring together people who are respected 
from across the political spectrum, and get to the bottom of it. That 
proposal for a bipartisan Commission was stopped by Republican 
leadership in the House and the Senate. After all of the statements 
they made expressing outrage over January 6, when it came time to 
appoint the Commission--bipartisan Commission--they refused. There is 
only one conclusion you can draw: They don't want to face the truth. 
They don't want the truth to be on the record from a bipartisan 
Commission. Luckily, in the House of Representatives, the January 6 
Committee has achieved that, and there is more to come.
  I might add, people say: Why didn't the Senate Judiciary Committee 
take this on? That is a very valid question. The difference is this. In 
order to issue a subpoena from the Senate Judiciary Committee in such a 
committee hearing, we need to have agreement from at least one 
Republican member of the committee. We had no assurance that that 
agreement would be offered. So I supported the January 6 Committee in 
the House, and I am glad that they moved forward as they have.


                                Abortion

  Madam President, it was a month ago the Dobbs decision was handed 
down. One of the most controversial issues in American politics is the 
issue of abortion and reproductive health.
  We know that Justice Alito's opinion, a 6-to-3 decision, overturned 
Roe v. Wade. Since then, we have been trying to sort out the impact of 
that decision on America. There are many things that have happened 
which have been shocking--the fact that they have called into question 
some of the things that we had accepted for 50 years as 
constitutionally guaranteed rights.
  Yes, there was a 10-year-old girl who was viciously raped and turned 
up pregnant in the State of Ohio. And, yes, under the law in the State 
of Ohio because she was 6 weeks 3 days pregnant, she couldn't qualify 
for a procedure to terminate her pregnancy in the State of Ohio. She 
had to go to Indiana, the neighboring State. There were those who 
disputed that it ever happened and denied that such a thing could 
occur. As it turned out, they were wrong. It did happen. I was saddened 
to read that one of the leaders in the right to life movement said she 
should carry that baby to term--a 10-year-old girl.
  Madam President, I am sure you have seen a lot of 10-year-old young 
people. I have seen them, too, even in my household, one of my 
grandchildren. At that age, you are still questioning whether they can 
cross a busy street without help. And to think someone would say she 
should carry that baby to term ignores her own health and ignores the 
reality of that situation. That is the kind of rhetoric we are hearing 
from people who are proposing a national ban on abortions.
  I was reading this morning an article in the New York Times.
  Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to have this New York Times 
article printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

             After Roe, Urgent Questions About Cancer Care

                            (By Gina Kolata)

       In April of last year, Rachel Brown's oncologist called 
     with bad news--at age 36, she had an aggressive form of 
     breast cancer. The very next day, she found out she was 
     pregnant after nearly a year of trying with her fiance to 
     have a baby.
       She had always said she would never have an abortion. But 
     the choices she faced were wrenching. If she had the 
     chemotherapy that she needed to prevent the spread of her 
     cancer, she could harm her baby. If she didn't have it, the 
     cancer could spread and kill her. She had two children, ages 
     2 and 11, who could lose their mother.
       For Ms. Brown and others in the unlucky sorority of women 
     who receive a cancer diagnosis when they are pregnant, the 
     Supreme

[[Page S3623]]

     Court decision in June, ending the constitutional right to an 
     abortion, can seem like a slap in the face. If the life of a 
     fetus is paramount, a pregnancy can mean a woman cannot get 
     effective treatment for her cancer. One in a thousand women 
     who gets pregnant each year is diagnosed with cancer, meaning 
     thousands of women are facing a serious and possibly fatal 
     disease while they are expecting a baby.
       Before the Supreme Court decision, a pregnant woman with 
     cancer was already ``entering a world with tremendous 
     unknowns,'' said Dr. Clifford Hudis, the chief executive 
     officer at the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Now, 
     not only the women but also the doctors and hospitals that 
     treat them, are caught up in the added complications of 
     abortion bans.
       ``If a doctor can't give a drug without fear of damaging a 
     fetus, is that going to compromise outcomes?'' Dr. Hudis 
     asked. ``It's a whole new world.''
       Cancer drugs are dangerous for fetuses in the first 
     trimester. Although older chemotherapy drugs are safe in the 
     second and third trimesters, the safety of the newer and more 
     effective drugs is unknown and doctors are reluctant to give 
     them to pregnant women.
       About 40 percent of women who are pregnant and have cancer 
     have breast cancer. But other cancers also occur in pregnant 
     women, including blood cancers, cervical and ovarian cancer, 
     gastrointestinal cancer, melanoma, brain cancer, thyroid 
     cancer and pancreatic cancer.
       Women with some types of cancer, like acute leukemia, often 
     can't continue with a pregnancy if the cancer is diagnosed in 
     the first trimester. They need to be treated immediately, 
     within days, and the necessary drugs are toxic to a fetus.
       ``In my view, the only medically acceptable option is 
     termination of the pregnancy so that lifesaving treatment can 
     be administered to the mother,'' said Dr. Eric Winer, the 
     director of the Yale Cancer Center.
       Some oncologists say they are not sure what is allowed if a 
     woman lives in a state like Michigan, which has a law that 
     criminalized most abortions but permits them to save the life 
     of the mother. Does leukemia qualify as a reason for an 
     abortion to save her life?
       ``It's so early we don't know the answer,'' said Dr. N. 
     Lynn Henry, an oncologist at the University of Michigan. ``We 
     can't prove that the drugs caused a problem for the baby, and 
     we can't prove that withholding the drugs would have a 
     negative outcome.''
       In other words, doctors say, complications from a 
     pregnancy--a miscarriage, a premature birth, birth defects or 
     death--can occur whether or not a woman with cancer takes the 
     drugs. If she is not treated and her cancer gallops into a 
     malignancy that kills her, that too might have happened even 
     if she had been given the cancer drugs.
       Administrators of the University of Michigan's medical 
     system are not intervening in cancer treatment decisions 
     about how to treat cancers in pregnant women, saying 
     ``medical decision making and management is between doctors 
     and patients.''
       I. Glenn Cohen, a law professor and bioethicist at Harvard, 
     is gravely concerned.
       ``We are putting physicians in a terrible position,'' Mr. 
     Cohen said. ``I don't think signing up to be a physician 
     should mean signing up to do jail time,'' he added.
       Oncologists usually are part of a hospital system, Mr. 
     Cohen said, which adds a further complication for doctors who 
     treat cancers in states that ban abortions. ``Whatever their 
     personal feelings,'' he asked, ``what are the risks the 
     hospital system is going to face?''
       ``I don't think oncologists ever thought this day was 
     coming for them,'' Mr. Cohen said.
       Behind the confusion and concern from doctors are the 
     stories of women like Ms. Brown.
       She had a large tumor in her left breast and cancer cells 
     in her underarm lymph nodes. The cancer was HER2 positive. 
     Such cancers can spread quickly without treatment. About 15 
     years ago, the prognosis for women with HER2 positive cancers 
     was among the worst breast cancer prognosis. Then a targeted 
     treatment, trastuzumab, or Herceptin, completely changed the 
     picture. Now women with HER2 tumors have among the best 
     prognoses compared with other breast cancers.
       But trastuzumab cannot be given during pregnancy.
       Ms. Brown's first visit was with a surgical oncologist who, 
     she said, ``made it clear that my life would be in danger if 
     I kept my pregnancy because I wouldn't be able to be treated 
     until the second trimester.'' He told her that if she waited 
     for those months her cancer could spread to distant organs 
     and would become fatal.
       Her treatment in the second trimester would be a mastectomy 
     with removal of all of the lymph nodes in her left armpit, 
     which would have raised her risk of lymphedema, an incurable 
     fluid buildup in her arm. She could start chemotherapy in her 
     second trimester but could not have trastuzumab or radiation 
     treatment.
       Her next consult was with Dr. Lisa Carey, a breast cancer 
     specialist at the University of North Carolina, who told her 
     that while she could have a mastectomy in the first 
     trimester, before chemotherapy, it was not optimal. 
     Ordinarily, oncologists would give cancer drugs before a 
     mastectomy to shrink the tumor, allowing for a less invasive 
     surgery. If the treatment did not eradicate the tumor, 
     oncologists would try a more aggressive drug treatment after 
     the operation.
       But if she had a mastectomy before having chemotherapy, it 
     would be impossible to know if the treatment was helping. And 
     what if the drugs were not working? She worried that her 
     cancer could become fatal without her knowing it.
       She feared that if she tried to keep her pregnancy, she 
     might sacrifice her own life and destroy the lives of her 
     children. And if she delayed making her decision and then had 
     an abortion later in the pregnancy, she feared that the fetus 
     might feel pain.
       She and her fiance discussed her options. This pregnancy 
     would be his first biological child.
       With enormous sadness, they made their decision--she would 
     have a medication abortion. She took the pills one morning 
     when she was six weeks and one day pregnant, and cried all 
     day. She wrote a eulogy for the baby who might have been. She 
     was convinced the baby was going to be a girl, and had named 
     her Hope. She saved the ultrasound of Hope's heartbeat.
       ``I don't take that little life lightly,'' Ms. Brown said.
       After she terminated her pregnancy, Ms. Brown was able to 
     start treatment with trastuzumab, along with a cocktail of 
     chemotherapy drugs and radiation. She had a mastectomy, and 
     there was no evidence of cancer at the time of her surgery--a 
     great prognostic sign, Dr. Carey said. She did not need to 
     have all of her lymph nodes removed and did not develop 
     lymphedema.
       ``I feel like it has taken a lot of courage to do what I 
     did,'' Ms. Brown said. ``As a mother your first instinct is 
     to protect the baby.''
       But having gone through that grueling treatment, she also 
     wondered how she could ever have handled having a newborn 
     baby and her two other children to care for.
       ``My bones ached. I couldn't walk more than a few steps 
     without being out of breath. It was hard to get nutrients 
     because of the nausea and vomiting,'' she said.
       The Supreme Court decision hit her hard.
       ``I felt like the reason I did what I did didn't matter,'' 
     she said. ``My life didn't matter, and my children's lives 
     didn't matter.''
       ``It didn't matter if I lost my life because I was being 
     forced to be pregnant,'' she said.
  Mr. DURBIN. I want to read this because it tells you the 
complications that have been created by what seemed like a very simple 
decision overturning a previous Supreme Court case. This writer, Gina 
Kolata, wrote an article entitled ``After Roe, Urgent Questions About 
Cancer Care.'' It was in Sunday's New York Times, July 24, 2022. I was 
struck by this article because it suggests the complexity of this issue 
and the real-world impact of this decision:

       In April of last year, Rachel Brown's oncologist called 
     with bad news--at age 36, she had an aggressive form of 
     breast cancer. The very next day, she found out she was 
     pregnant after nearly a year of trying with her fiance to 
     have a baby.
       She had always said she would never have an abortion. But 
     the choices she faced were wrenching. If she had the 
     chemotherapy that she needed to prevent the spread of her 
     cancer, she could harm the baby. If she didn't have it, the 
     cancer could spread and kill her. She had two children, ages 
     2 and 11, who would lose their mother.
       For Ms. Brown and others in the unlucky sorority of women 
     who receive a cancer diagnosis when they are pregnant, the 
     Supreme Court decision in [Dobbs], ending the constitutional 
     right to an abortion, can seem like a slap in the face. If 
     the life of a fetus is paramount, a pregnancy can mean a 
     woman cannot get effective treatment for her cancer. One in a 
     thousand women who gets pregnant each year is diagnosed with 
     cancer, meaning thousands of women are facing a serious and 
     possibly fatal disease while they are expecting a baby.
       Before the Supreme Court decision, a pregnant woman with 
     cancer was already ``entering a world with tremendous 
     unknowns,'' said Dr. Clifford Hudis, the chief executive 
     officer at the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Now, 
     not only the women but also the doctors and hospitals that 
     treat them, are caught up in the added complications of 
     abortion bans.
       ``If a doctor can't give a drug without fear of damaging a 
     fetus, is that going to compromise outcomes?'' Dr. Hudis 
     asked. ``It's a whole new world.''
       Cancer drugs are dangerous for fetuses in the first 
     trimester. Although older chemotherapy drugs are safe in the 
     second and third trimesters, the safety of the newer and more 
     effective drugs is unknown and doctors are reluctant to give 
     them to [a] pregnant [woman].

  This woman decided to terminate her pregnancy, take the cancer 
therapy, and save her life. She closes with the following statements:

       But having gone through that grueling treatment, she also 
     wondered how she could ever have handled having a newborn 
     baby and her two other children to care for.
       ``My bones ached, I couldn't walk more than a few steps 
     without being out of breath. It was hard to get nutrients 
     because of nausea and vomiting,'' she said.
       The Supreme Court decision hit her hard.
       ``I felt like the reason I did what I did didn't matter,'' 
     she said. ``My life didn't

[[Page S3624]]

     matter, and my children's lives didn't matter.
       ``It didn't matter if I lost my life because I was being 
     forced to be pregnant,'' she said.

  That is the reality today. I hear my colleagues come to the floor 
with absolute certain moral clarity on this issue. I have learned 
during the course of my life and my public life that there is not that 
element of certainty when it comes down to real life. And to jeopardize 
the health and safety, even the life of the mother in this 
circumstance, to leave doctors wondering if they have criminal 
liability for professional medical care is something this Nation should 
never see. But we face it now, and it is up to us to show leadership 
and come together, I hope, and bring back the constitutional 
protections that have been the case for 50 years in this country.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. Duckworth). The Senator from Texas.


                           CHIPS Act of 2022

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, as I was preparing to come to the floor, 
I was going to say we are going to have a vote tonight to proceed to 
fill a major gap in our national security, although it looks like 
Mother Nature and the weather may prevent a vote tonight, and it may be 
tomorrow. But, still, I expect in the next couple of days for us to 
address a major gap in our national security.
  More than a year and a half after the original CHIPS Act became law, 
we are finally approaching the finish line in the race to fund it.
  You may recall that it was June of 2020 that Senator Warner, the 
senior Senator, a Democrat from Virginia, and I introduced the CHIPS 
for America Act to address a frightening supply chain vulnerability 
when it comes to the most advanced semiconductors in the world, 90 
percent of which come from Asia, and 60 percent come from Taiwan.
  Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin recently wrote a letter to 
congressional leaders saying that ``funding the CHIPS Act is critical 
to our national defense,'' and last week, former Secretary of State and 
CIA Director Mike Pompeo also urged Congress to pass this funding, 
saying:

       The cost of compromise on this bill pales in comparison to 
     the costs we will suffer if we allow the Chinese Communist 
     Party to one day own and control access to our most critical 
     technologies.

  I agree with both of these statements, one by a Democrat appointee, 
another by a Republican appointee.
  Chips underpin virtually all the technology that we use that keeps us 
safe at home and protects our troops around the world. And for those 
not conversant with the role semiconductors play, these microprocessors 
underpin literally everything that has an off-and-on switch, and 
obviously our dependency on that kind of technology will do nothing but 
increase in the days and months and years ahead.
  From our major military assets, like the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, 
to everyday technologies that keep our troops safe, like advanced body 
armor, semiconductors are key. Keeping a ready and dependable supply 
chain of these defense assets requires a lot of semiconductors, and 
right now, we are mainly looking to other countries to manufacture 
them.
  As a matter of fact, the United States of America makes zero percent 
of the most advanced semiconductors in the world. We depend on 
outsourcing virtually all of the manufacturing to other countries and 
produce none of them here. Roughly 75 percent of the semiconductor 
manufacturing globally is concentrated in China and East Asia, and 100 
percent of the world's most advanced chipmaking capacity is located in 
only two places--Taiwan and South Korea. As I said, Taiwan commands 92 
percent of the world's advanced chipmaking, and the United States makes 
zero.
  You might wonder, How did we find ourselves in this situation? Well, 
I think it was probably the supply chain vulnerabilities that we saw 
from COVID-19 that called into question this assumption that just 
because something could be made cheaper somewhere else in the world, 
that that necessarily checked all the boxes. Well, it does if all you 
are depending on is China to make toys for our children or other 
nonessential items, but when you are talking about the very brains 
behind the technology we need, ranging from our cell phone, as I said, 
to our most sophisticated military weapons, it does not check all the 
boxes to say we will just import those from abroad, where they can be 
made cheaper, because that vulnerable supply chain, if disrupted, could 
cause not only a severe economic depression in America but also 
threaten our national security directly.
  If access to those chips were cut off or restricted, we would be up a 
creek without a paddle. We couldn't produce a stockpile of Javelin 
missiles to supply Ukraine or produce the radios and 
communications devices that keep our troops and our allies connected. 
That is why shoring up this domestic supply, this manufacturing 
capacity, is a key national security priority, and this is the best way 
to protect one of our most critical supply chains and ensure our 
military readiness will not be compromised by the People's Republic of 
China or the Chinese Communist Party, which has threatened, by the way, 
to invade Taiwan, where the vast majority of these advanced 
semiconductors are made. But it wouldn't necessarily require a military 
intervention. It could be another pandemic, it could be a natural 
disaster--anything that might block our access to these advanced 
semiconductors.

  While closing that national security gap is the top priority here, we 
can't ignore major economic consequences that this legislation will 
deliver as well.
  When I introduced this legislation with Senator Warner from Virginia, 
who is chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, on which I also 
serve, our focus was on national security. Obviously, many of our 
States will be winners when it comes to the economic consequences of 
this legislation as well. Texas has been, for example, a longstanding 
leader in the semiconductor industry and is home to more than 200 chip 
manufacturing facilities that employ 29,000 Texans. For years, our 
State has reaped the benefits of semiconductor manufacturing. Most of 
these are what are called legacy chips. They are the older chips where 
you are not as concerned about miniaturization or compactness or 
power--things that, for example, run our refrigerators or TV sets or 
other consumer electronics or maybe even our cars.
  We are already seeing the types of investments that this chips bill 
will finally bring. Earlier this summer, Texas Instruments, in the 
metroplex in Dallas-Fort Worth, broke ground on the first of four new 
fabs in Sherman, TX, about an hour north of Dallas. This is part of a 
$30 billion investment that is expected to create some 3,000 more jobs. 
The mayor of Sherman, where this is located in Northeast Texas, 
described it as ``a watershed day,'' noting that ``it's hard to have a 
frame of reference for a $30 billion investment in a town of 50,000 
people.''
  Sherman isn't the only town in Texas preparing for a major chips 
boom. Last fall, I joined leaders from Samsung--a South Korean company 
with a large facility already in Austin, TX--when they announced a $17 
billion additional investment in a new chip fab in Taylor, TX, just 
outside of Austin. That facility is expected to directly create more 
than 2,000 high-tech jobs, as well as thousands of other related jobs, 
once it is operational because these fabs, or manufacturing facilities, 
are not stand-alone; they are part of what ultimately will become an 
ecosystem of suppliers and other affiliated industries that will be 
built up around them, creating thousands more jobs.
  But we also learned from Samsung that they are not likely to stop 
there if we pass this CHIPS for America funding this week. Samsung is 
currently considering whether to expand its investment to include 11 
new chipmaking facilities in Central Texas.
  If it moves forward with this plan, which, again, depends on our 
passage of this legislation this week, it could lead to nearly $200 
billion in additional investments and create 10,000 jobs.
  I know that is tough to comprehend--the economic growth and sweeping 
benefits that would come with a $200 billion investment and 10,000 new 
jobs; but as exciting as these potential investments are, there is 
something even better. This is just the beginning.
  Companies around the world are eyeing Texas and the United States for 
new investments in chipmaking. Applied Materials, NXP Semiconductors,

[[Page S3625]]

Infineon, GlobalWafers, GlobiTech, and a number of other companies are 
looking at building or expanding their facilities in Texas or other 
parts of the country.
  GlobalFoundries, for example, is investing $1 billion to boost 
production in New York. Intel plans to build a $20-billion facility of 
two fabs in Ohio. And Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company--TSMC, 
as it is called--is building a $12-billion plant in Arizona. They have 
already broken ground on that plant, but they made it clear that their 
willingness to make that investment and complete that fab will depend 
on our passage of the CHIPS for America Act.
  And once this legislation passes, I expect more good news to follow. 
This is not just good news for our individual States, but also for our 
national economy and our global competitiveness.
  We are not used to providing these kinds of financial incentives to 
businesses, but when it costs 30 percent less to build these 
manufacturing facilities across the seas in Asia and our access to that 
supply chain is potentially jeopardized by very real threats, it is a 
necessary investment for us to make. And we are seeing other places 
around the world providing similar incentives, for example, in the 
European Union. But that doesn't necessarily solve our supply chain 
problem. We need the jobs and that investment here in America for us to 
be truly safe and secure and to reap the economic benefits of this 
investment.
  On the economic front, this funding has the support of many groups on 
the outside, including the bipartisan support that I mentioned earlier; 
in my State, the Texas Association of Business; the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce, for example; and we have heard from the National Governors 
Association, which is a bipartisan organization of U.S. Governors; as 
well as the U.S. Conference of Mayors, which represent State and local 
leaders across the country.
  My Governor, Governor Abbott, called this bill ``an opportunity to 
lock even greater economic potential.''
  So I am proud to support this legislation. After all this time, I 
will be especially glad when the finish line is in sight and we cross 
it successfully later this week.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Vermont.
  Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, like the Senator from Texas, I wish to 
speak about the so-called chips bill, but my perspective is, to say the 
least, a little bit different.
  To my mind, what the chips bill represents is the question of whether 
or not we will have priorities in this country that represent the needs 
of working families and the middle class or whether this institution, 
the entire Congress, is totally beholden to wealthy and powerful 
corporate interests.
  I do not argue with anyone who makes the point that there is a global 
shortage in microchips and semiconductors, which is making it harder 
for manufacturers to produce the cars, the cell phones, the household 
appliances, and the electronic equipment that we need. This shortage 
is, in fact, costing American workers good-paying jobs and raising 
prices for families. And that is why I personally strongly support the 
need to expand U.S. microchip production.
  But the question that we should be asking is this: Should American 
taxpayers provide the microchip industry with a blank check--blank 
check--of over $76 billion at the same exact time when semiconductor 
companies are making tens of billions of dollars in profits and paying 
their CEOs exorbitant compensation packages?
  That really is one of the questions that we should be asking, and I 
think the answer to that is a resounding no. This is an enormously 
profitable industry.
  According to an Associated Press article that I read today, Senator 
Romney, reflecting the views, I think, of many--I think Senator Cornyn 
made the same point--but Senator Romney was quoted as saying that when 
other countries subsidize the manufacturing of high technology chips, 
the United States must join the club--must join the club.
  ``If you don't play like they play, then you are not going to be 
manufacturing high technology chips, and they are essential for our 
national defense as well as our economy,'' Senator Romney said.

  Now, I find the position of Senator Romney and others to be really 
quite interesting because I personally have been on this floor many, 
many times urging the Senate to look to other countries around the 
world and learn from those countries. And what I have said is that it 
is a bit absurd that here in the United States we are the only major 
country on Earth not to guarantee healthcare to all of their people. 
And Senator Romney says ``join the club,'' and I agree. Let's join the 
club and not spend twice as much per capita on healthcare as the 
Canadians, as the British, as the French. Let's join that club and 
guarantee healthcare to all people, rather than making the insurance 
companies billions in profits every single year.
  Senator Romney says ``join the club,'' and I agree. We should join 
the club in terms of higher education. Germany today, and other 
countries around the world, make sure that their young people can go to 
their colleges and universities tuition-free so that they don't have to 
leave school 40, 50, or $100,000 in debt. Let's join the club. Let's do 
what Germany and other countries are doing, which makes eminent sense 
in every sense of the word. Let's guarantee the right of all of our 
kids, regardless of their income, to get a higher education. Let's join 
the club.
  And there is another club that I think we might want to join, among 
many others. We are the only major country--virtually the only country 
on Earth--that does not guarantee paid family and medical leave. There 
are women today in the United States of America having a baby, and they 
will be back at work in a week because they need the income--no 
guaranteed paid family medical leave. There are people getting fired 
today because their kids are sick. They have to make the choice whether 
they hang on to their jobs or take care of their sick kids.
  Let's join the club. Let's do what not only every major country on 
Earth does in terms of guaranteed paid family and medical, but what 
virtually all countries, including some of the poorest, in the world 
do.
  But I gather the problem is that to join those clubs in terms of 
universal healthcare, in terms of paid family and medical leave, in 
terms of free tuition and public colleges and universities, we are 
going to have to take on powerful special interests, and they make 
campaign contributions. And that is not what the Senate does.
  When it comes to joining the club with other countries giving blank 
checks to large corporations, that is a club that, unfortunately, many 
of my colleagues here feel comfortable in joining.
  So, apparently, when corporate America needs a blank check of $76 
billion, we do what other countries are doing.
  There is a lot of talk about the microchip crisis facing this country 
but, amazingly enough, very little discussion about how we got to where 
we are today. One might ask: OK, if there is a crisis, how did it 
happen? Well, let's review some recent history. This is really quite 
amazing.
  Over the last 20 years, the microchip industry has shut down over 780 
manufacturing plants and other establishments in the United States and 
eliminated 150,000 American jobs while moving most of its production 
overseas. And, by the way, they did that after they received a Federal 
grant and loans much smaller than what we are talking about today.
  So here is the absurd situation that we are in. The crisis is caused 
by the industry shutting down in America and moving abroad. And today, 
what we are doing is saying: We are going to give you a blank check to 
undo the damage that you did.
  Let me just give you a few examples. We don't have a whole lot of 
information on this. Between 2010 and 2014, Intel laid off 
approximately 1,400 workers from the Rio Rancho, NM, chip facility and 
offshored 1,000 jobs to Israel. According to the Oregon Bureau of Labor 
and Industry, Intel laid off more than 1,000 workers in Oregon between 
2015 and 2016. Texas Instruments outsourced 400 jobs from their Houston 
manufacturing facility to the Philippines in 2013. Micron Technology 
has repeatedly cut jobs in Boise, ID, including 1,100 in 2003 and 
another 1,100 in

[[Page S3626]]

2007; 1,500 in 2008; and in 2009, the company stopped manufacturing 
some types of chips entirely and laid off 2,000 workers.
  In other words, in order to make more profits, these companies took 
government money and used it to ship good-paying jobs abroad. Now as 
their reward for causing the crisis that we are in, these same 
companies are in line to receive a massive taxpayer handout to undo the 
damage they did.
  Wow, that is a heck of a policy. You bribe companies to undo the 
damage that they caused.
  It is estimated in total that five major semiconductor companies will 
receive the lion's share of this taxpayer handout: Intel, Texas 
Instruments, Micron Technology, Global Boundaries, and Samsung. These 
five companies alone made $70 billion in profits.
  You know, I find it interesting. I have heard Senators here on the 
floor talk about entitlements. When we help working people, when we 
help poor people, there are all kinds of requirements--work 
requirements, reporting requirements, drug testing requirements, you 
name the requirements when the Federal Government helps working people 
or low-income people.
  Well, what are the requirements attached to this handout for large 
profitable corporations? The answer is zero.
  The company that will likely benefit the most from this taxpayer 
assistance is Intel. In 2021, last year, Intel made nearly $20 billion 
in profits.
  You know, it just does astound me. You have heard people come to the 
floor and say: We can't help working parents with their kids. We don't 
believe in those entitlement programs. We can't guarantee healthcare to 
all people. We are not an ``entitlement society.'' But a company that, 
last year, made $20 billion in profits, they are entitled to what we 
estimate will be between $20 and $30 billion in Federal funding. During 
the pandemic and during the last several years, Intel had enough money 
to spend $16.6 billion not on research and development, not on building 
new plants in America but on buying back its own stock to reward its 
executives and wealthy shareholders. So here is the absurd moment that 
we are in. As I mentioned a moment ago, it is estimated that Intel will 
receive between $20 and $30 billion in Federal funding. Yet, within the 
last several years, the same company spent over $16 billion on stock 
buybacks, and there is no guarantee in this bill that they and other 
companies that receive these grants will not continue to do stock 
buybacks.

  This is the way a corrupt political system works, and I hope 
everybody understands it.
  Over the past 20 years, Intel has spent over $100 million on lobbying 
and campaign contributions. That is a lot of money, $100 million, but 
this is what a corrupt political system is about. For $100 million in 
lobbying and campaign contributions, they are going to get at least $20 
billion in corporate welfare. That, I would argue, is a pretty good 
investment. That is what goes on here not only with the microchip 
industry but with the pharmaceutical industry, the fossil fuel 
industry, the insurance industry--huge amounts of money in lobbying and 
campaign contributions. The pharmaceutical industry has 1,500 paid 
lobbyists right now, right here in Washington, DC, which is why we pay 
the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs.
  I find this extraordinary. Maybe I am the only person here who does, 
but, to me, it is rather amazing.
  A little over a week ago, the CEO of Intel, a gentleman named Pat 
Gelsinger, who earns something like $179 million a year in 
compensation--not a bad salary--did an interview on CNBC's ``Squawk 
Box'' program. I think to listen to that interview tells us everything 
we need to know about oligarchy and arrogance and the state of American 
politics.
  This is what Mr. Gelsinger said on TV. I love this.

       My message--

  Mr. Gelsinger's message--

     to congressional leaders is ``Hey, if I'm not done with the 
     job, I don't get to go home. Neither should you. Do not go 
     home for August recess until you have passed the CHIPS Act. 
     Because--

  Now listen to this--

       ``I and others in the industry will make investment 
     decisions. And do you want those investments in the U.S. or 
     are we simply not competitive enough to do them here and 
     we''--

  The industry--

     ``need to go to Europe or Asia for those? Get the job done. 
     Do not go home for August recess without getting these bills 
     passed.''

  In other words, what he is telling you is, point blank, who is the 
puppet and who is the puppeteer. Don't go home this August until you 
give us $76 billion because, if you don't do that, we are going to go 
to Asia, and we are going to go to Europe.
  That is the state of American politics--and not only of American 
politics, I would say. It is equally true in other countries that are 
also held hostage by large, multinational corporations.
  Let us be clear. The CEO of Intel is saying, if you don't give his 
industry a $76 billion blank check and his particular company up to $30 
billion, that despite, no doubt, their profound love for America--I am 
sure they have got big American flags all over the place and their 
patriotism and their concern for the needs of the military and the 
healthcare industry, which, in fact, need these sophisticated chips. If 
we do not give them this bribe despite their love of America and their 
concern about our national defense--you heard Senator Cornyn talking 
about national defense, and he is right in that this is a national 
defense issue. Despite all of that and all of their love for America, 
they are willing to go to Asia and go to Europe in order to make even 
more money.
  As I said last week, I am, thankfully, not a lawyer, but that sure 
sounds like extortion to me. Mr. Gelsinger's words sure sound like 
extortion. What he is saying is, if you don't give his industry $76 
billion, they are out. They are not going to build in the United 
States, and they are going to go abroad.
  So I have a few questions for Mr. Gelsinger and the other microchip 
CEOs.
  If Intel and the others receive a corporate welfare check from the 
taxpayers of America, are they willing to commit today that they will 
not outsource American jobs overseas? Yes or no?
  If this legislation passes, will Intel and the others commit today 
that they will not spend another penny on stock buybacks to enrich 
wealthy shareholders but will, instead, spend that money to create jobs 
in the United States?
  If this legislation goes into effect, will Intel and the others 
commit today that they will stay neutral in any union organizing 
campaign, like the one being waged at Intel's microchip plant in 
Hillsboro, OR?
  If this legislation goes into effect, will Intel and the others 
commit today that they are prepared to issue warrants for the Federal 
Government so that the taxpayers of America get a reasonable return on 
their investments?
  These grants are going to provide a whole lot of profit for these 
companies. It seems to me the taxpayers should benefit as well.
  If Intel and the others were prepared to say yes to any of these 
questions, I don't think that they would be lobbying against my 
amendment to impose these very same conditions to this legislation.
  Let me simply conclude by saying this: I worry not only about this 
bill; I worry about the precedent that it states, that it allows. What 
the precedent is, is that any company that is prepared to go abroad and 
that has ignored the needs of the American people will then say to the 
Congress: Hey, if you want us to stay here, you had better give us a 
handout.
  We manufacture virtually all of our laptop computers in China. We 
manufacture virtually all of our cell phones in China. Pass this 
legislation, and I expect all of these guys and others will be back 
here, saying: We want for our industry what you did for the microchip 
industry.
  So the bottom line is here: Yes, we need to rebuild the microchip 
industry in the United States but not as a handout. Let us sit down and 
work on intelligent industrial policy. Let us work on a series of 
agreements that protect the American taxpayer and American workers and 
not just wealthy stockholders.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.


                           CHIPS Act of 2022

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, today, the Senate had planned to move

[[Page S3627]]

forward to end the debate on the bipartisan chips and innovation bill. 
Unfortunately, a number of severe thunderstorms on the East Coast have 
disrupted the travel plans of a significant number of Senators. To give 
Members a chance to get back into town safely, I am going to delay 
tonight's vote on the bipartisan chips and innovation bill until 
tomorrow morning. I remain hopeful that we can remain on track to 
finish this legislation ASAP.


                            PACT Act of 2022

  Madam President, in the meantime, I will now file cloture on another 
bill that will dramatically improve the lives of millions of American 
veterans, the PACT Act, which, when signed into law, will be one of the 
biggest expansions of veterans' healthcare benefits in decades.
  As my colleagues already know, because of a technical error, the 
House of Representatives was unable to take up our version of this bill 
that we passed in the spring. The House has now fixed their error and 
has returned the PACT Act back to the Senate. By filing cloture, we 
should be able to pass this bipartisan piece of legislation before the 
week is done.
  Our nation's veterans have waited long enough to get the benefits 
they need to treat complications from toxic exposure in the line of 
duty. So we have every reason in the world to get this bill done with 
the same bipartisan support as the first time around.
  Again, I want to thank particularly Senators Tester and Moran, who 
led the way to pass this bill earlier this year, thank all of our 
colleagues and our veterans and veterans service organizations for 
helping push this bill through Congress.


                 Unanimous Consent Agreement--H.R. 4346

  Madam President, now I ask unanimous consent that notwithstanding 
rule XXII, the cloture vote with respect to H.R. 4346 occur at a time 
to be determined by the majority leader, following consultation with 
the Republican leader.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. SCHUMER. For the information of the Senate, we expect the cloture 
vote with respect to the CHIPS and science legislation to occur around 
11 o'clock a.m. tomorrow, Tuesday, July 26.


                             Cloture Motion

  Mr. SCHUMER. Now, Madam President, I have a cloture motion to the 
motion to concur at the desk.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The cloture motion having been presented under 
rule XXII, the Chair directs the clerk to read the motion.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the motion to 
     concur in the House amendment to S. 3373, a bill to improve 
     the Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant and the Children of 
     Fallen Heroes Grant.
         Charles E. Schumer, Jon Tester, Ben Ray Lujan, Richard 
           Blumenthal, Robert P. Casey, Jr., Tina Smith, John W. 
           Hickenlooper, Mazie K. Hirono, Mark R. Warner, Debbie 
           Stabenow, Jack Reed, Tammy Baldwin, Jacky Rosen, 
           Raphael G. Warnock, Tammy Duckworth, Christopher 
           Murphy, Mark Kelly.

  Mr. SCHUMER. I ask unanimous consent that the mandatory quorum call 
for the cloture motion filed today, July 25, be waived.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 183 (Tuesday, November 29, 2022)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E1184-E1185]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




RECOGNIZING RESOLUTION 181 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
                                  VOTE

                                 ______
                                 

                            HON. JOE WILSON

                           of south carolina

                    in the house of representatives

                       Tuesday, November 29, 2022

  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, today marks the 75th 
anniversary of the U.N. General Assembly vote on Resolution 181, also 
known as the partition plan. The resolution supported the creation of 
two independent states from Palestine, one Arab and one Jewish, at the 
end of the British Mandate.
  The adoption of this resolution laid the foundation for the creation 
of the modern Jewish State of Israel.
  The passage of the resolution came with strong U.S. leadership in 
helping garner the support necessary for its advancement, including 
from President Harry Truman who told the U.S. delegation to the U.N. to 
quote, ``get busy and get all the votes you can.''
  Members of this body, like Representative Sol Bloom, a former 
chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, also played a key 
role, reaching out to foreign nations and encouraging them to support 
the plan.
  The plan was not everything Jewish leaders wanted. It left Jerusalem 
outside of what would become Israel. But nonetheless, it was proudly 
accepted by the Jewish Agency and Zionist groups, while the Arab League 
and Palestinian leaders rejected this plan.
  I especially appreciate that today the United States fully recognizes 
Jerusalem as the capitol of Israel. On May 14, 2018, I led the House 
delegation for the opening the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem with 
Ambassador David Friedman, welcomed by Prime Minister Benjamin 
Netanyahu. The re-location of the Embassy was the fulfilment of 
``promises made, promises kept'' by President Donald Trump. Senator 
Lindsey Graham led the Senate Delegation.
  Since that day, Palestinian rejectionism continues to limit the 
opportunity for peace. The Palestinians did not support a Palestinian 
state in 1947 because it would have meant accepting a Jewish state. To 
this day there are far too many Palestinians that refuse to accept 
Israel's right to exist and live in peace and security.
  As the ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on 
the Middle East, North Africa and Global Counterterrorism, Co-Chairman 
of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and a veteran supporter of our 
democratic ally Israel, I am grateful to mark this historic 75th 
anniversary of the UN Partition Plan vote with a strong commitment to 
the U.S.-Israel relationship.
  Since its creation, the United States supported the Jewish State with 
bipartisan support from Congress, working to build a strong security, 
intelligence and defense relationship enshrined by shared values and 
mutually strategic interests. The United States Congress has worked to 
support our ally with annual security assistance, defense cooperation, 
and an emerging relationship in key areas including agriculture, hi-
tech and homeland security.
  Both our countries are committed to democracy and justice, and we 
continue to look for new ways to integrate Israel into the region, such 
as support for the historic Abraham Accords that normalized ties 
between Israel and

[[Page E1185]]

our Arab allies, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Morocco, and Sudan. 
Unlike the Palestinian leadership, I am encouraged to see these Arab 
nations suspend their continued rejection of Israel and work to 
integrate it into the region.
  While we continue to see the UN's deplorable efforts to isolate, 
condemn and excessively attack Israel, I celebrate one of the few 
positive things it has done in the Middle East--the historic 75th 
anniversary of the UN Partition Plan vote, guided by strong U.S. 
leadership.
  May the U.S.-Israel relationship continue to flourish for the next 75 
years and beyond, and may we continue to promote our shared interests 
supporting democracy, peace, and cooperation throughout the region.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. Res. 775 Agreed to Senate (ATS)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
S. RES. 775

    Expressing the sense of the Senate that violence and threats of 
 violence against the employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
               are unacceptable and should be condemned.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 20, 2022

 Mr. Durbin (for himself, Mr. Coons, and Mr. Blumenthal) submitted the 
        following resolution; which was considered and agreed to

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
    Expressing the sense of the Senate that violence and threats of 
 violence against the employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
               are unacceptable and should be condemned.

Whereas, pursuant to a judicially issued warrant, the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation (referred to in this preamble as ``FBI'') searched the 
        residence of former President Donald Trump (referred to in this preamble 
        as ``the former President'') on August 8, 2022, for classified and 
        national defense information records owned by the United States 
        (referred to in this preamble as ``the search'');
Whereas, in the days following the search, employees of the FBI and their 
        families have been subjected to threats of violence;
Whereas the threats to employees of the FBI and their families have been 
        inflamed by--

    (1) calls from members of Congress to ``destroy the FBI'' or ``defund 
the FBI'';

    (2) members of Congress comparing the execution of a lawful warrant by 
the FBI to the actions of the Nazi Gestapo; and

    (3) repeated attacks from the former President, who has called FBI 
officials, among other insults, ``vicious monsters'';

Whereas the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security issued an intelligence 
        bulletin warning of a further increase in violent threats and acts of 
        violence against Federal law enforcement officials and facilities 
        following the search;
Whereas these threats include placing a ``dirty bomb'' outside of FBI 
        headquarters and calls for ``civil war'' and ``armed rebellion'';
Whereas the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security have also ``observed the 
        personal identifying information of possible targets of violence, such 
        as home addresses and identification of family members, disseminated 
        online as additional targets'';
Whereas a man wearing body armor and armed with an AR-15 rifle and nail gun 
        attempted to breach the FBI Cincinnati Field Office on August 11, 2022;
Whereas a man was indicted on August 16, 2022, for threatening to murder 
        everyone at the FBI, from the Director, to agents, to the custodial 
        staff;
Whereas a man jumped a fence and threw rocks at the FBI Chicago Field Office on 
        August 25, 2022;
Whereas the continued leveling of threats and baseless attacks against the FBI 
        will increase the risk of injury or death that employees of the FBI 
        face; and
Whereas the employees of the FBI put their lives on the line every day to 
        protect the communities of the United States and uphold the rule of law: 
        Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the Senate--
            (1) condemns attacks and threats of violence against the 
        employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
            (2) condemns calls from members of Congress to ``destroy 
        the FBI'' and ``defund the FBI'';
            (3) urges public officials at every level of government to 
        reject and condemn political violence and the threat of 
        political violence, regardless of its motivation;
            (4) honors the dedicated service of the employees of the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation, including their work executing 
        lawful warrants; and
            (5) affirms that a founding principle of the United States 
        is that individuals settle differences through the political 
        process, not through the use or threat of violence.
                                 <all>
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 13 (Thursday, January 20, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S357-S358]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             VOTING RIGHTS

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last night was a reminder of a difficult 
but important reality of our great democracy: The march to freedom, 
through thick and thin, is never over--and we have to keep marching.
  While last night's vote was disappointing, it will not deter Senate 
Democrats from continuing our fight against voter suppression, dark 
money, and partisan gerrymandering. Democrats are proud of the fight we 
held last night. The strength, eloquence, enthusiasm, and overwhelming 
participation of my Democratic colleagues during debate was 
exhilarating and shows the passion we feel about this issue.
  Facing an uphill battle from the start, we lost the vote. But to have 
not voted would have been a far greater loss, a loss for our Democratic 
Party, which for generations has stood for voting rights; a loss for 
the civil rights advocates who have sacrificed so much on this issue; 
and a loss for the American people and what this country stands for. On 
an issue this important, not doing everything we could would have been 
unacceptable.
  Now, the bromides of the beltway class hold we should not have held a 
vote on voting rights if the outcome was not certain. They are wrong. 
Imagine telling Dr. King not to march from Selma to Montgomery because 
he could not be sure what obstacles awaited him and his fellow freedom 
fighters. Imagine telling John Lewis he should never have crossed the 
Pettus Bridge because it was unclear what perils awaited him on the 
other side.
  Every Member of this body who has ever invoked these great titans of 
freedom has an obligation--an obligation--to uphold their legacies not 
just with words but with actions. Senators were elected to vote. The 
examples of Dr. King, of John Lewis inspire us, give us strength, and 
show us that sometimes the only right option is to move forward.
  And we need to remember what this is about. With the advent of Donald 
Trump and his many Big Lies, with the January 6 insurrection, with the 
vicious acts of voter suppression throughout the States, and with the 
greedy dark money interests that fuel the Republican Party these days, 
this is a fight for the soul of America--nothing less. So Democrats 
will not shy away from an uphill fight; we will continue to face them.
  And I believe that the lessons of history are clear: When 
Representatives have to take a stand, when they have to show to the 
American people where they are on the issues, the right side of history 
ultimately prevails. We know history is on the side of voting rights, 
and we know that forcing leaders to take stands will ultimately move 
the ball forward.
  Now, finally, I want to thank all my colleagues who came to the floor 
yesterday to speak valiantly in defense of voting rights and for 
working assiduously for months on this vital issue: Senators Klobuchar 
and Merkley, Booker, Schatz, Senator Kaine--you, Mr. President--
Senators King, Tester, Warnock, Ossoff, Durbin, Padilla, Leahy--and so 
many, so many more. Their leadership, their expertise, and their 
dedication to protecting our democracy is inspiring. It gives our 
caucus strength, and it made such a difference. Last night was unusual 
and exhilarating because we fought the good fight.

[[Page S358]]

  As former Majority Leader Alben Barkley of Kentucky said 80 years ago 
this November, facing a filibuster, which successfully blocked anti-
poll tax legislation--the majority leader, Alben Barkley, from 
Kentucky, said:

       I am glad I have made this fight. I have made it in behalf 
     of what I believe to be the broad and true foundations of a 
     true democracy.

  Senate Democrats fighting for voting rights is not over. We will keep 
fighting until voting rights are protected for every single American. 
And one day--hopefully, sooner rather than later--we will succeed.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________


[House Prints 117-4]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]




 
 BUSINESS MEETING TO CONSIDER A REPORT RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF 
    REPRESENTATIVES CITE PETER NAVARRO AND DANIEL SCAVINO, JR., FOR 
                     CRIMINAL CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS

=======================================================================

                                MEETING

                                 of the

                          SELECT COMMITTEE TO
                      INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH
                             ATTACK ON THE
                         UNITED STATES CAPITOL

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               __________

                             MARCH 28, 2022

                               __________

                            Serial No. 117-4

                               __________

Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
                6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                                     


[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

                                     

        Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov
        
        
        
        
                              ______
 
              U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE 
50-117PDF          WASHINGTON : 2022        
        
        
        

                               __________

 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE UNITED 
                             STATES CAPITOL

               Bennie G. Thompson, Mississippi, Chairman
                    Liz Cheney, Wyoming, Vice Chair
                        Zoe Lofgren, California
                       Adam B. Schiff, California
                        Pete Aguilar, California
                      Stephanie N. Murphy, Florida
                         Jamie Raskin, Maryland
                       Elaine G. Luria, Virginia
                        Adam Kinzinger, Illinois
                            COMMITTEE STAFF

                    David B. Buckley, Staff Director
      Kristin L. Amerling, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
               Hope Goins, Senior Counsel to the Chairman
           Joseph B. Maher, Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair
             Timothy J. Heaphy, Chief Investigative Counsel
                      Jamie Fleet, Senior Advisor
               Timothy R. Mulvey, Communications Director
           Candyce Phoenix, Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor
 John F. Wood, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice 
                                 Chair

Katherine B. Abrams, Staff               Thomas E. Joscelyn, Senior 
    Associate                                 Professional Staff Member
Temidayo Aganga-Williams, Senior          Rebecca L. Knooihuizen, Financial 
    Investigative Counsel                         Investigator
Alejandra Apecechea, Investigative       Casey E. Lucier, Investigative 
    Counsel                                       Counsel
Lisa A. Bianco, Director of Member       Damon M. Marx, Professional Staff 
    Services and Security Manager                    Member
Jerome P. Bjelopera, Investigator        Evan B. Mauldin, Chief Clerk
Bryan Bonner, Investigative Counsel       Yonatan L. Moskowitz, Senior 
Richard R. Bruno, Senior                            Counsel
    Administrative Assistant                Hannah G. Muldavin, Deputy 
Marcus Childress, Investigative               Communications Director
    Counsel                              Jonathan D. Murray, Professional 
John Marcus Clark, Security                       Staff Member
    Director                             Jacob A. Nelson, Professional 
Jacqueline N. Colvett, Digital                   Staff Member
    Director                            Elizabeth Obrand, Staff Associate
Heather I. Connelly, Professional        Raymond O'Mara, Director of 
    Staff Member                          External Affairs
Meghan E. Conroy, Investigator          Elyes Ouechtati, Technology 
Heather L. Crowell, Printer                       Partner
                                         Robin M. Peguero, Investigative 
    Proofreader                                    Counsel
William C. Danvers, Senior               Sandeep A. Prasanna, Investigative 
    Researcher                                     Counsel
Soumyalatha Dayananda, Senior              Barry Pump, Parliamentarian
    Investigative Counsel                  Sean M. Quinn, Investigative 
Stephen W. DeVine, Senior Counsel                   Counsel
Lawrence J. Eagleburger,                   Brittany M. J. Record, Senior 
    Professional Staff Member                       Counsel
Kevin S. Elliker, Investigative           Denver Riggleman, Senior Technical 
    Counsel                                           Advisor
Margaret E. Emamzadeh, Staff               Joshua D. Roselman, Investigative 
    Associate                                        Counsel
Sadallah A. Farah, Professional           James N. Sasso, Senior 
    Staff Member                           Investigative Counsel
Daniel A. George, Senior                 Grant H. Saunders, Professional 
    Investigative Counsel                         Staff Member
Jacob H. Glick, Investigative             Samantha O. Stiles, Chief 
    Counsel                                 Administrative Officer
Aaron S. Greene, Clerk                      Sean P. Tonolli, Senior 
Marc S. Harris, Senior                     Investigative Counsel
    Investigative Counsel                 David A. Weinberg, Senior 
Alice K. Hayes, Clerk                     Professional Staff Member
Quincy T. Henderson, Staff                 Amanda S. Wick, Senior 
    Assistant                               Investigative Counsel
Jenna Hopkins, Professional Staff          Darrin L. Williams, Jr., Staff 
    Member                                      Assistant
Camisha L. Johnson, Professional            Zachary S. Wood, Clerk
    Staff Member                     
                                     

                       CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS

                             Rawaa Alobaidi
                             Melinda Arons
                              Steve Baker
                            Elizabeth Bisbee
                              David Canady
                             John Coughlin
                             Aaron Dietzen
                              Gina Ferrise
                           Angel Goldsborough
                             James Goldston
                              Polly Grube
                          L. Christine Healey
                             Danny Holladay
                              Percy Howard
                              Dean Jackson
                           Stephanie J. Jones
                              Hyatt Mamoun
                               Mary Marsh
                               Todd Mason
                              Ryan Mayers
                              Jeff McBride
                               Fred Muram
                             Alex Newhouse
                              John Norton
                             Orlando Pinder
                               Owen Pratt
                              Dan Pryzgoda
                              Brian Sasser
                            William Scherer
                              Driss Sekkat
                              Chris Stuart
                            Preston Sullivan
                              Brian Young

                           Innovative Driven
                           
                            C O N T E N T S
                            

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page

                   Statements of Members of Congress

The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee 
  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
  Capitol........................................................     1
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to 
  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol     3
The Honorable Zoe Lofgren, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California............................................     6
The Honorable Adam Kinzinger, a Representative in Congress From 
  the State of Illinois..........................................     7
The Honorable Adam Schiff, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California............................................     8
The Honorable Pete Aguilar, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California............................................     9
The Honorable Stephanie Murphy, a Representative in Congress From 
  the State of Florida...........................................    10
The Honorable Jamie Raskin, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Maryland..............................................    12
The Honorable Elaine Luria, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Virginia..............................................    15

                           Committee Business

Report...........................................................     6

                                Appendix

Full text, Report................................................    20


 BUSINESS MEETING TO CONSIDER A REPORT RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF 
    REPRESENTATIVES CITE PETER NAVARRO AND DANIEL SCAVINO, JR., FOR 
                     CRIMINAL CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS

                              ----------                              


                         Monday, March 28, 2022

                     U.S. House of Representatives,
 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
                                 the United States Capitol,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 7:41 p.m., in 
room 390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson 
(Chairman of the Committee) presiding.
    Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger.
    Chairman Thompson. A quorum being present, the Select 
Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United 
States Capitol will be in order.
    The Select Committee is meeting this evening to consider a 
report on a resolution recommending the House of 
Representatives find Peter K. Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., 
in contempt of Congress for refusal to comply with subpoenas 
duly issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
6th Attack on the United States Capitol.
    Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the 
Committee in recess at any time.
    I will now recognize myself for an opening statement.
    This evening, the Select Committee is required to consider 
two more citations for criminal contempt of Congress for Daniel 
Scavino, Jr., and Peter Navarro.
    Before I get started, I do want to comment quickly on the 
ruling today in John Eastman's lawsuit to stop the Select 
Committee from obtaining certain records. As the Vice Chair and 
I said in our statement earlier today, this ruling is a clear 
victory for the rule of law. I encourage people at home to read 
what Judge Carter wrote and consider his words very carefully. 
His warnings about the ongoing threat to American democracy 
should alarm every person in this country.
    I want to read a short excerpt from Judge Carter's ruling:

Dr. Eastman and President Trump launched a campaign to overturn a 
democratic election, an action unprecedented in American history. Their 
campaign was not confined to the ivory tower. It was a coup in search 
of a legal theory. The plan spurred violent attacks on the seat of our 
Nation's Government, led to the death of several law enforcement 
officers, and deepened public distrust in our political process.

    More than a year after the attack on our Capitol, the 
public is still searching for accountability. I am proud to say 
that this Committee is helping to lead that search for 
accountability. It is why we are here tonight.
    So let's turn to Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro. These aren't 
household names, and my colleagues will share some details 
about who they are and why they are so important to our 
investigation. In short, these two men played a key role in the 
ex-President's efforts to overturn the results of the 2020 
election. The Select Committee subpoenaed them for records and 
testimony to learn more about their roles and what they knew.
    In Mr. Scavino's case, he strung us along for months before 
making it clear that he believes he is above the law. Mr. 
Navarro, despite sharing relevant details on TV and podcasts 
and in his own book, he also stonewalled us.
    The contempt report published last night gets into the 
weeds on this. But, broadly, Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro are 
making similar excuses. They are claiming that the information 
we want from them is shielded by executive privilege.
    To remind everyone, executive privilege is the power of the 
President to make sure official, sensitive information and 
conversations stay private. It is a privilege used to protect 
the Presidency and our national security. It usually involves a 
President and that President's closest advisors, Cabinet 
Secretaries, top aides.
    In the lead-up to January 6th, Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro 
were both Government employees. They worked in the White House. 
They drew salaries paid by the taxpayers. They had 
conversations with the ex-President. So now they are saying 
they won't answer any of our questions because of executive 
privilege.
    There are a couple of big problems with their argument. 
First, generally speaking, executive privilege doesn't belong 
to just any White House official. It belongs to the President. 
Here President Biden has been clear that executive privilege 
does not prevent cooperation with the Select Committee by 
either Mr. Scavino or Mr. Navarro. While the ex-President 
reportedly has raised privilege concerns when it comes to Mr. 
Scavino, in Mr. Navarro's case, nobody has even tried to invoke 
privilege except Mr. Navarro himself. That is just not the way 
it works. Peter Navarro isn't President.
    It is important to note that, even if a President has 
formally invoked executive privilege regarding testimony of a 
witness, which is not the case here, that witness has the 
obligation to sit down under oath and assert the privilege 
question by question. But these witnesses didn't even bother to 
show up.
    Second, if the ex-President had a legitimate claim to 
executive privilege, this is a privilege that applies to things 
that happen in an official capacity. So, if Mr. Scavino or Mr. 
Navarro are claiming that all the information they have is 
protected by executive privilege, they are basically saying 
that everything they did, they did in their official roles, 
paid by taxpayers.
    As I said before, we want to talk to Mr. Scavino and Mr. 
Navarro about their roles in an attempt to overturn an American 
election. The American people didn't pay their salaries to do 
that.
    Now, there are a lot of laws that set out what Government 
officials aren't allowed to do when they are on the clock or 
using Government resources. It is important that taxpayer 
dollars don't support political activity. There are a few 
bright lines about every specific situation.
    I can't sit in my office on Capitol Hill and make 
fundraising calls. Every staff member has to take an ethics 
training every year to remind them what is in and out of 
bounds. I don't mean to make light of it, but just for the 
record and for those watching at home, trying to overturn an 
election is out of bounds--way out of bounds. Yet Mr. Scavino 
and Mr. Navarro say they won't talk about the causes of January 
6th because they were White House officials at the time, 
engaged in official business, and so executive privilege stands 
in the way. They potentially played a part in an attack on 
American democracy, but they can ignore our investigation 
because they worked for the Government at the time. That is 
their argument.
    They are not fooling anybody. They are obligated to comply 
with our investigation. They have refused do so, and that is a 
crime.
    Our investigation aims to give the American people a lot of 
answers about a great many matters. But I think we will also 
leave you with some unanswered questions to consider for 
yourselves-- questions about the sort of people who deserve the 
power and responsibility of positions of public trust.
    For a great many of us, it means something profound when we 
raise our hands and swear an oath. We haven't finished the work 
of our investigation, but I can say confidently that to many 
involved in the run-up to January 6th, an oath, statement of 
fidelity to our democracy, was nothing more to them than 
meaningless words. I fear what happens if those people are 
again given the reins of power.
    These men, Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro, are in contempt of 
Congress. I encourage my colleagues to support adoption of this 
report. I am confident the House will adopt a resolution citing 
them for this crime. I hope the Justice Department will move 
swiftly to hold them accountable.
    I am pleased now to recognize my friend, the gentlewoman 
from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for any remarks she cares to offer.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    We are entering a critical stage of our investigation. We 
have now taken the testimony of hundreds of witnesses with 
knowledge of the events of January 6th, including more than a 
dozen former Trump White House staff members.
    We have learned that President Trump and his team were 
warned in advance and repeatedly that the efforts they 
undertook to overturn the 2020 election would violate the law 
and our Constitution. They were warned that January 6th could 
and likely would turn violent. They were told repeatedly by our 
State and Federal courts, by our Justice Department, and by 
agencies of our intelligence community that the allegations of 
wide-spread fraud sufficient to overturn the election were 
false and were unsupported by the evidence, and yet, despite 
all these specific warnings, President Trump and his team moved 
willfully through multiple means to attempt to halt the 
peaceful transfer of power, to halt our constitutional process 
for counting votes, and to shatter the constitutional bedrock 
of our great Nation. As a Federal judge concluded today, the 
illegality of President Trump's plan for January 6th was 
``obvious.''
    Today, as the Chairman noted, we address two specific 
witnesses who have refused to appear for testimony. Mr. Scavino 
worked directly with President Trump to spread President 
Trump's false message that the election was stolen and to 
recruit Americans to come to Washington with the false promise 
that January 6th would be an opportunity to ``take back their 
country.'' This effort to deceive was widely effective and 
widely destructive.
    The Committee has many questions for Mr. Scavino about his 
political social media work for President Trump, including his 
interactions with an online forum called TheDonald, and with 
QAnon, a bizarre and dangerous cult.
    President Trump, working with Mr. Scavino, successfully 
spread distrust for our courts, which had repeatedly found no 
basis to overturn the election. Trump's stolen election 
campaign succeeded in provoking the violence on January 6th. On 
this point, there is no doubt. The Committee has videos, 
interviews, and sworn statements from violent rioters 
demonstrating these facts.
    Mr. Navarro is also a key witness. He has written a book 
boasting about his role in planning and coordinating the 
activity of January 6th, and yet he does not have the courage 
to testify here. We have many questions for Mr. Navarro, 
including about his communications with Roger Stone and Steve 
Bannon regarding the planning for January 6th.
    As Judge Carter concluded today, ``Based on the evidence, 
the court finds it more likely than not that President Trump 
corruptly attempted to obstruct the joint session of Congress 
on January 6th, 2021.''
    Our Committee will continue to litigate to obtain the 
testimony we need. We have already defeated President Trump's 
effort to hide certain White House records behind the shield of 
executive privilege. As the court said in that case, ``Under 
any of the tests advocated by former President Trump, the 
profound interests in disclosure advanced by President Biden 
and the January 6th Committee far exceed his generalized 
concerns for executive branch confidentiality.'' That same 
conclusion should apply to Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro.
    Let me pause for a moment on one specific legal point. Like 
Mr. Meadows, Mr. Navarro insists that he is above the law and 
is categorically and absolutely immune from any congressional 
subpoena regarding January 6th. We are aware of no court 
anywhere in America that has ever agreed with this proposition.
    To the extent that Mr. Navarro and Mr. Meadows are 
attempting to rely upon memoranda from the Justice Department's 
Office of Legal Counsel, those memoranda explicitly do not 
apply here. In this context, Mr. Navarro was not acting as a 
White House aide advising the President on official matters of 
policy. He was acting as a Trump Campaign operative planning a 
political effort to obstruct or impede Congress's 
Constitutional proceeding to count electoral votes.
    The Department of Justice is entrusted with the defense of 
our Constitution. Department leadership should not apply any 
doctrine of immunity that might block Congress from fully 
uncovering and addressing the causes of the January 6th attack. 
Congress is a separate and coequal branch of Government. It 
must have the authority and the ability to protect its 
independence and safeguard the constitutional separation of 
powers.
    In the coming months, our Committee will convene a series 
of hearings. The American people will hear from our fellow 
citizens who demonstrated fidelity to our Constitution and the 
rule of law and who refused to bow to President Trump's 
pressure.
    The Committee has heard from many of these individuals, 
including Republicans appointed by President Trump to posts in 
the Department of Justice, Republicans who stood firm, who 
threatened to resign, and refused to participate in efforts to 
corrupt the Department with the stolen election lies that led 
to January 6th.
    We have heard from leading Republicans serving in State 
legislatures and in State and local government who also stood 
firm, who resisted pressure from the former President, and did 
their constitutional duty.
    We have heard from Republicans who were serving in the 
Trump White House, including those who warned in advance that 
the President's plans were unlawful and those who tried to 
intervene with the President to get him to halt the violence 
when it erupted on January 6th.
    In a time when many Republican Members of Congress have 
abandoned their obligation to our Constitution and are putting 
politics above duty, each of the individuals I just mentioned 
has, by contrast, demonstrated a firm and unwavering commitment 
to this Nation and to our constitutional Republic. Each has 
done what is right, despite tremendous personal, political, and 
professional cost. Each is a model for the American people of 
the kind of public servants this Nation needs: Men and women 
who know our institutions don't defend themselves and who 
recognize the obligation that comes from holding positions of 
public trust.
    As we meet here today, Vladimir Putin continues his 
brutality against Ukraine, killing innocents, reminding us what 
happens when authoritarians rule. Each day we see footage of 
the unyielding courage of the Ukrainian people who are fighting 
and dying to defend their freedom. Their bravery reminds us 
that democracy is fragile. Democracy only survives if citizens 
are willing to defend it.
    We live in the greatest constitutional Republic in history. 
No citizen in our Republic can be a bystander. If we don't 
stand for our freedom and our Republic, we will lose them. In 
his ruling today, Judge Carter put it this way: ``If President 
Trump's plan had worked, it would have permanently ended the 
peaceful transition of power, undermining American democracy 
and the Constitution. If the country does not commit to 
investigating and pursuing accountability for those 
responsible, the court fears January 6th will repeat itself.''
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    Pursuant to notice, I now call up the Report on Resolution 
Recommending that the House of Representatives Find Peter K. 
Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., in Contempt of Congress for 
Refusal to Comply with Subpoenas Duly Issued by the Select 
Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United 
States Capitol. The report was circulated in advance, and 
printed copies are available.
    The clerk shall designate the report.
    [The clerk designated the report.]
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, the report will be 
considered as read and open to amendment at any point.*
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    * For the text of the report, see Appendix.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Chairman Thompson. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from California, Ms. Lofgren.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    You know, it is a phrase we use all the time: No one is 
above the law. But it seems as if a few of the former 
President's closest aides and allies seem to think they are, 
including Daniel Scavino, Jr.
    Now who is he? Mr. Scavino met Mr. Trump around 1992 and 
worked for him for many years: First at the Trump National Golf 
Club; then as director of social media for his 2016 
Presidential campaign; then as White House deputy chief of 
staff for communications and on his 2020 campaign; and, later, 
on efforts to reverse the election results, which former Vice 
President, Mike Pence, has denounced as un-American.
    According to many published reports, Mr. Scavino worked 
closely with Mr. Trump to use social media to spread lies 
regarding nonexistent election fraud and to inflame a violent, 
angry mob. For example, Mr. Trump's Twitter account praised a 
false report alleging election fraud, tweeting, and here is a 
quote: ``A great report. Statistically impossible to have lost 
the 2020 election. Big protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be 
there. Will be wild.''
    Mr. Scavino also followed domestic violent extremist social 
media, and he did that on behalf of Mr. Trump. This Committee 
has reason to believe that doing so provided Mr. Scavino with 
explicit advanced warnings of the violence that was to occur on 
January 6th. Now, Mr. Scavino may have shared these warnings of 
violence with Mr. Trump before January 6th. He reportedly 
attended several meetings with Mr. Trump and others regarding 
reversing President Biden's legitimate victory.
    Mr. Scavino was also with Mr. Trump during the Capitol 
attack while Mr. Trump failed to immediately try to stop it, 
despite urgent bipartisan calls for him do so.
    Republican Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell rightly 
said that the public needs to know everything about what caused 
and occurred on January 6th. To inform both the American people 
and legislative reform proposals, this Committee needs to speak 
with Mr. Scavino. He has to fulfill his legal and his moral 
obligation to provide testimony and documents, or he should 
face the consequences. That is why we are taking this action 
today.
    In the United States of America, no one is above the law. 
This Committee is doing its job. The Department of Justice 
needs to do theirs.
    I yield back, Mr. Chairman.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. 
Kinzinger.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    As the Vice Chair mentioned with Ukraine, it reminds us 
that democracies aren't defined by bad days or bad things that 
happen, but how they defend it and how they come back from 
that. That is the importance of this Committee.
    So Dan Scavino met Donald Trump when he was 16 years old. 
He became a long-time Trump employee and remains a true Trump 
loyalist. In the Trump administration, Dan Scavino served as 
director of social media and, for its final 2 years, as deputy 
chief of staff of communications. As the Select Committee 
report notes, Dan Scavino was with then-President Trump on 
January 5th and 6th. He spoke with President Trump by phone 
several times on January 6th and was with the President when 
many urged him to help stop the violence at the Capitol. He was 
always, at all relevant times, a Trump and White House insider.
    Social media as a means of monitoring and shaping trends 
was Dan Scavino's core business. Reports tell us that Dan 
Scavino and his team monitored extremist social media sites, 
monitored trends on social media, and used extremist social 
media sites to shape public perceptions. There is, in short, a 
great deal of highly important information that Dan Scavino has 
that the Select Committee needs to know.
    I want to focus on one aspect of that: What Dan Scavino 
could tell us about what then-President Trump thought was 
likely to happen on January 6th. Did the President know that 
the rally could turn violent, that his rhetoric on the Ellipse 
could send an angry mob to storm the Capitol? When Trump noted 
on the evening of January 5th that he had a fired-up crowd, did 
he know that they might take it literally when the next morning 
he told them to ``fight hard''?
    Dan Scavino was there and could tell us a lot about that. 
We need to hear from him. In refusing to talk to us, he is 
stiff-arming the American people, and he is hiding the truth. 
It is unlawful, and there is no excuse.
    Then-President Trump asserted that he generally did his own 
tweets, but he acknowledged that, on occasion, Scavino helped 
to shape them. We know that he often composed social media 
posts and discussed their language with Trump.
    With that in mind, let's take a closer look.
    On December 19, 2020, Trump retweeted a video that ended by 
urging viewers to ``fight for Trump.'' And here it is.
    January 6th was then just 2\1/2\ weeks off. Dan Scavino can 
tell us something useful about why Donald Trump retweeted that 
particular message.
    President Trump also retweeted a video titled, ``How to 
Steal an Election.'' Among other things, it argued that COVID-
19 was created to ensure that Trump would lose the election. 
And here is that one.
    QAnon had already retweeted that one by the time Trump did. 
We would like to hear what President Trump's director of social 
media has to say about that.
    Now, what did Trump's extremist followers on TheDonald and 
other hard-right social media sites make of all that, of 
President Trump urging them to join in a wild protest on 
January 6th? Some of his followers on TheDonald fringe site 
took it as marching orders. Dan Scavino had every reason to 
know that they would be violent. Dan Scavino was well aware of 
what his boss wanted and to the extremist violent users that 
used the site like TheDonald.
    Dan Scavino himself sent out a video that a user on the 
same site understood to be ``literal war drums.''
    President Trump had by then been President for a full 4 
years with Dan Scavino at his side. He--they--knew that the 
January 6th crowd could turn violent. They knew exactly what 
they were doing. The Select Committee needs to hear directly 
from Dan Scavino about his and President Trump's role in 
inciting violence that day.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. 
Schiff.
    Mr. Schiff. Thank you to our Chairman and Vice Chair for 
convening us today.
    Our Committee has a singular purpose: To ensure that our 
Nation never again experiences the violence of January 6th, 
that there is never again an effort to overturn a Presidential 
election or to interfere with a peaceful transfer of power. 
That is our object. Every single witness called before this 
panel should cooperate. It is a patriotic duty to help Congress 
and the American people understand how the tragedy of January 
6th came about, and more than a duty, it is necessity when 
served with a lawful subpoena to appear, which is why we are 
here today.
    Peter Navarro and Dan Scavino have refused to comply with a 
duly authorized subpoena, offering up again and again spurious 
and unjustifiable excuses. In Mr. Scavino's case, he has 
clearly relevant testimony for our Committee. Scavino was 
intimately involved in former President Trump's social media 
content and strategy and served as deputy chief of staff for 
communications while also actively promoting Trump's campaign.
    The Select Committee believes that Scavino was with Trump 
on January 5th and 6th, including during a period when the 
Capitol was under attack; that he was party to conversations 
with Trump about challenging, disrupting, or impeding the 
congressional proceedings to certify the election results; and 
that he may have also had prior knowledge regarding the 
likelihood of violence on January 6th due to his monitoring of 
social media sites where such violence was discussed and 
predicted.
    Specifically, through press reporting, we are aware that, 
on January 6th, Mr. Scavino was advising Trump throughout the 
day, potentially even directly sending messages from the White 
House and potentially playing a role in the video message Trump 
released hours after rioters breached the Capitol.
    It has also been reported that Mr. Scavino was present 
during a January 5th strategy session with Trump as they 
schemed on how they could convince congressional Republicans to 
successfully object to the certification of the election and 
thus overturn it.
    This is why Mr. Scavino has an obligation to appear before 
us. Nevertheless, Mr. Scavino claims to be protected under 
executive privilege, but that claim isn't grounded in the law 
or reality. Executive privilege doesn't allow for a person to 
simply refuse to appear before a congressional committee. It 
doesn't apply to Scavino's campaign activities on behalf of the 
former President. It doesn't apply to a potentially unlawful 
scheme to obstruct Congress. It doesn't apply to his official 
duties when, as here, the current President of the United 
States asserts it is not in the public interest to do so.
    I have one more thing to add tonight. The Department of 
Justice has a duty to act on this referral and others we have 
sent. Without enforcement of congressional subpoenas, there is 
no oversight. Without oversight, no accountability, not for the 
former President or any other President, past, present, or 
future. Without enforcement of its lawful process, Congress 
ceases to be a coequal branch of Government, and the balance of 
power would be forever altered to the lasting detriment of the 
American people.
    Finally, I want to return to Judge Carter's remarkable 
opinion, finding that a former President of the United States 
may have committed a crime and fraud against the United States. 
The judge said that Dr. Eastman and President Trump launched a 
campaign to overturn a democratic election, an action 
unprecedented in American history. Their campaign was not 
confined to the ivory tower; it was a coup in search of a legal 
theory. The plan spurred violent attacks on the seat of our 
Nation's Government, led to the deaths of several law 
enforcement officers, and deepened public distrust in our 
political process.
    As the Vice Chair pointed out, he also said: ``If the 
country does not commit to investigating and pursuing 
accountability for those responsible, the court fears January 
6th will repeat itself.''
    That responsibility to investigate and pursue 
accountability extends to those who hold the highest office in 
the land or those who hold no office at all. If no one is above 
the law, then no one must be above the law. We are upholding 
our responsibility; the Department of Justice must do the same.
    I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. 
Aguilar.
    Mr. Aguilar. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice Chair, and 
distinguished colleagues.
    Our Committee is dedicated to getting to the truth and to 
taking any steps necessary to do so. When material witnesses 
fail to comply with lawful subpoenas, we have no choice but to 
refer them for contempt of Congress.
    Peter Navarro's testimony is integral to our investigation. 
Despite the fact that he has given multiple television 
interviews regarding our subpoena, he has failed to comply with 
our investigation in any way. Mr. Navarro has publicly stated 
that he is protected by executive privilege but has never 
sought counsel, as others have. He has never filed any case 
seeking relief from his responsibilities to comply with our 
subpoena.
    An economist with a Ph.D. from Harvard, Mr. Navarro ran 
unsuccessfully for office in my home State of California 5 
times. He wrote several books on economics and trade, many of 
which focused on China. He was brought on by the Trump Campaign 
in 2016 to advise the former President on economic and trade 
issues. He was such an important advisor to the former 
President that an office in the White House was created just 
for him to oversee it: The White House National Trade Council. 
He was the architect of the President's trade policies, which, 
according to a study commissioned by the U.S.-China Business 
Council, ``hurt the U.S. economy and failed to achieve major 
policy goals.''
    Now, Mr. Chairman, I think the American people might be 
wondering why our Committee would need to speak with a trade 
official about the attempts to overturn the 2020 election. As 
the Vice Chair noted, that is because Mr. Navarro held that 
title as the director of the White House National Trade 
Council, but he devoted much of his time to White House 
political efforts outside the scope of his official duties.
    In fact, the American people are likely to know Mr. Navarro 
solely in his political capacity. He was so active in the 2020 
reelection campaign that the United States Special Counsel 
ruled in 2020 that Mr. Navarro repeatedly violated the Hatch 
Act. That is because the former President trusted Mr. Navarro 
as a spokesman and confidant. He was so intimately involved 
with these efforts that Mr. Navarro allegedly led a call on 
January 2nd with a group of State legislators about the effort 
to convince Vice President Pence to delay the election 
certification for 10 days. A text handed over to this Committee 
by Mr. Meadows from a member of the press read, and I quote: 
``Mark, I am reaching out because I have details on the call 
that Navarro helped convene yesterday with legislators as part 
of his efforts to get Pence to delay certification of the 
election for 10 days, including that the President 
participated. Were you on the call when the President spoke?''
    Among the many questions we have for Mr. Navarro, we need 
to hear from him about this conversation and about that phone 
call. We need to hear from him about his other calls with Steve 
Bannon, whom the House has already held in contempt, that took 
place both during and after the attack on the U.S. Capitol.
    We know that Mr. Navarro believes he and Mr. Bannon came up 
with the strategy for overturning the election because he 
details it in his book, which I know my colleague from Florida 
will discuss in greater detail. This is as clear a case for 
contempt as we are likely to see, Mr. Chairman.
    I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    The Chair now recognizes the gentlewoman from Florida, Mrs. 
Murphy.
    Mrs. Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    I will just pick up where my colleague, Mr. Aguilar, left 
off.
    Over a month and a half ago, Mr. Navarro was subpoenaed by 
this Committee. We sought documents and testimony regarding his 
efforts to discredit the election and to prevent the results 
from being certified. This information is central to our 
Committee's inquiry.
    Mr. Navarro refused to comply, making a cursory claim of 
executive privilege. There are many reasons why this blanket 
assertion of executive privilege lacks merit, as a matter of 
law and as a matter of common sense. Most fundamentally, 
neither the incumbent nor the former President has asserted 
privilege regarding Mr. Navarro's testimony or document 
production to the Committee. Mr. Navarro has no unilateral 
authority to assert privilege himself.
    Beyond that foundational flaw in Mr. Navarro's privilege 
claim, since the election, he has spoken and written widely 
about the precise subjects that are the focus of our subpoena. 
Clearly Mr. Navarro is eager tell his story as he sees it so 
long as he can do so on his own terms. For example, in 2020 and 
in 2021, Mr. Navarro published a three-part report on his 
website called ``The Navarro Report.'' In it he makes 
allegations about election fraud that have been debunked. 
Furthermore, in November 2021, Mr. Navarro published a book 
called ``In Trump Time.'' He describes in detail actions he 
took to change the outcome of the election. For instance, Mr. 
Navarro claims credit for working with Steve Bannon to concoct 
a scheme they called the ``Green Bay Sweep.'' The core of this 
plan was to encourage Vice President Pence to delay 
certification of the electoral college votes on January 6th and 
to send the election back to State legislators.
    In his book, Mr. Navarro also writes that he called 
Attorney General William Barr asking the Department of Justice 
to support President Trump's legal efforts to challenge the 
election results, which Barr declined to do. Notably, Mr. 
Navarro acknowledges that he kept a journal detailing this 
episode and other post-election actions that he took.
    Finally, earlier this year, at the same time he was 
refusing to comply with our subpoena, Mr. Navarro made multiple 
media appearances, during which he discussed his various roles 
in the events that culminated in the January 6th attack. I 
would like to play a video, a media clip, right now.
    Can you please cue the clip?

    Mr. Navarro. It's funny about this interview, which is kind-of 
interesting. It's like, I have so much knowledge to share with you 
about what I was involved in and what I know.
                                *  *  *
    Mr. Melber. Given that you have told me that you have a plan that 
you pushed to delay or deal with the certification . . . 
    Mr. Navarro. Yes.
    Mr. Melber [continuing] . . . You told me 100 Members back it, and 
you have said in public Trump was on board, if you say all those things 
out here, why risk a legal battle or going to jail to refuse to discuss 
them with the Committee under oath?
    Mr. Navarro. Because I have a loyalty to the Constitution and a 
loyalty to the President.
    The President has invoked executive privilege in this matter. It's 
not my authority to revoke that privilege.
                                *  *  *
    Mr. Melber. You say it's not your privilege to waive.
    Mr. Navarro. That's the law. No, it's the law.
    Mr. Melber [continuing]. But let's look at how often you have 
waived it. Let's look some of the news you have made on these topics.
    Take a look.
    [Begin video clip.]
    Ms. Reid. Former Trump advisor Peter Navarro is spilling the beans.
    Mr. Navarro. We had over 100 Congressmen and Senators on Capitol 
Hill ready to implement the sweep.
    Mr. Bannon. Peter Navarro.
    Mr. Navarro. Right? The boss tells Pence to take my friggin' call.
    Voice. Peter Navarro tells ``Rolling Stone'' . . . 
    Mr. Navarro. It was about sending the votes back.
    Mr. Navarro. Most or all of those States would decertify the 
election.
    [End video clip.]
    Mr. Melber. How do you expect people to take seriously your claim 
this is secret and privileged, when you have been out there talking 
about it?
    And when you and Bannon said the Committee's dog wouldn't bark--
they were afraid of you and the report--it seems now, Peter, like the 
dog has barked.

    Mrs. Murphy. Thank you.
    He has so much knowledge to share with the journalists, but 
he refuses to share that knowledge in response to a lawful 
subpoena. Evidently, Mr. Navarro is only concerned with 
executive privilege with keeping certain matters confidential 
when it is convenient for him.
    Unfortunately for him and fortunately for the American 
public, that is not how the law works. No President, incumbent 
or former, has claimed privilege regarding Mr. Navarro's 
testimony and documents. In any event, his claim of executive 
privilege is severely undermined, if not foreclosed altogether, 
by his extensive public disclosures on the same issues the 
Committee seeks to question him about under oath. As a result 
of his actions, Mr. Navarro is clearly in contempt of Congress 
and should be referred to the Department of Justice for 
criminal prosecution.
    I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. 
Raskin.
    Mr. Raskin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    You know, my hero Tom Paine said: The cause of America is 
the cause of mankind.
    Today democracy is under siege all over the world, and just 
as we are working to defend and fortify democracy abroad in 
Ukraine and other places, we are working to defend and fortify 
democracy here at home.
    The assault on American democracy that exploded on January 
the 6th, Mr. Chairman, had two coordinated elements that we 
have been able to see. One was a violent insurrection from the 
outside, infused by propaganda and disinformation and led by 
domestic violent extremist groups, like the Oath Keepers, the 
Proud Boys, the Three Percenters, the QAnon networks, the 
militia groups.
    But the other component was a secret campaign on the inside 
to replace our constitutional process governing Presidential 
elections with a tissue of lies and counterfeit processes that 
make a mockery of American democracy. This is what the 
political scientists call a self-coup. It is not a coup against 
a President, like most coups, but it is a coup organized by the 
President against the constitutional framework itself.
    The two contempt citations we vote on tonight will go to 
persons who have critical information about both components of 
this assault on America and the coordination between them.
    Peter Navarro worked to overthrow the election by 
nullifying 79 electoral college votes cast by tens of millions 
of Americans who live in Arizona, Georgia, Pennsylvania, 
Michigan, New Mexico, and Wisconsin.
    Had his so-called ``Green Bay Sweep,'' which by the way is 
an insult to Green Bay Packers all over the country, but had 
his so-called ``Green Bay Sweep'' not been blocked by the 
bravery of our police officers, 150 of whom were injured, 
wounded, or hospitalized by insurrectionary violence, and by 
Vice President Pence's refusal to abandon his constitutional 
duties, this attempted coup would have, ``permanently ended the 
peaceful transition of power in America,'' threatening the 
survival of democracy and the Constitution as United States 
District Judge David Carter put it so powerfully in his 
remarkable decision today rejecting the claims of Navarro's 
comrade in these efforts, John Eastman.
    We subpoenaed Navarro to produce documents by February the 
23rd, 2022, and to appear for a deposition on March 2nd. He has 
produced no documents and failed to appear for his scheduled 
deposition.
    Peter Navarro must be held in criminal contempt of Congress 
and the American people because he is acting with criminal 
contempt for the Congress and the American people. The American 
people want to know what sets him above the law. The Supreme 
Court said in 1950 in U.S. v. Bryant that a subpoena creates a 
public duty which every person within the jurisdiction of the 
Government is bound to perform when properly summoned.
    In 2020, the Supreme Court emphasized that it is the duty 
of all citizens to cooperate with a subpoena. But Navarro 
invokes the words ``executive privilege,'' repeats the phrase 
over and over again: It is not my privilege to waive.
    He thinks he has found a magic wand to nullify the powers 
of the U.S. Congress, just like he thinks he has found a magic 
wand to nullify the powers of the States to cast their own 
electoral college votes.
    Now, Navarro's statement that the executive privilege is, 
``not his to waive'' is in fact accurate, but if the executive 
privilege is not Navarro's to waive, then neither, for the 
exact same reason and by definition, is it his to assert in the 
first place.
    The Supreme Court has been clear that the executive 
privilege belongs to the President of the United States, and on 
February 28th, 2022, the White House counsel notified Mr. 
Navarro that President Biden determined that assertion of 
executive privilege is not justified with respect to Navarro's 
effort to cover up the evidence of his participation in this 
assault on America's constitutional democracy.
    So Navarro then appears to fall back on the vague assertion 
that the executive privilege here belongs to former President 
Trump, which is not only dubious but entirely irrelevant 
because our Committee has not been given any attempted 
invocation of executive privilege by Donald Trump, either 
formally or informally, indirectly by Peter Navarro or directly 
by Donald Trump. Nothing. There is plainly no assertion of 
executive privilege here either by the actual President or by 
any former President. Even if there were, even if President 
Biden tried to assert executive privilege for Peter Navarro, it 
would fail immediately because the privilege does not apply to 
private political business, much less to criminal activity, 
like conducting coups or insurrections against the Government. 
The privilege applies only to professional speech on Government 
policy by advisors rendering confidential advice on matters 
within their domain of professional responsibility.
    Now, Peter Navarro was the White House trade advisor. It 
was not within his job description to overthrow Presidential 
elections, coerce Vice Presidents into abandoning their 
constitutional responsibilities, or impose counterfeit regimes 
in place of the U.S. Constitution.
    When Navarro was plotting to overthrow the election by 
canceling out the electoral college votes of 49 million 
Americans in six States to seize the Presidency for his chosen 
candidate for 4 years, he was not rendering advice on trade 
policy.
    We are not seeking documents or testimony from Navarro 
related to his official duties as trade advisor. Indeed, on the 
press call to announce the release of his outlandish and 
cartoonish three-part report on outright fraud in the 2020 
election on his personal website, Navarro acknowledged publicly 
that he was writing as a private citizen and not as a Federal 
Government official.
    So please spare us the nonsense talk about executive 
privilege, rejected now by every court that has looked at it. 
This is America, and there is no executive privilege here for 
Presidents, much less trade advisors, to plot coups and 
organize insurrections against the people's Government and the 
people's Constitution and then to cover up the evidence of 
their crimes. The courts aren't buying it, and neither are we.
    Navarro insists only on adding insult to his contempt. More 
than a year after Biden beat Trump by more than 7 million 
votes, Navarro continues to spread the big lie that Trump won. 
He says, ``Beyond any shadow of a doubt, this election was 
stolen.'' He brags about his work with Steve Bannon to apply 
pressure on Vice President Pence to do the wrong thing. He 
tells the complete story in his book ``In Trump Time'' and in 
his three-part report, which was made up of titles like ``The 
Immaculate Deception'' and ``The Art of the Steal,'' of how 
they tried to get Pence to abandon his constitutional duties 
and force the contest into a contingent Presidential election 
under the 12th Amendment in the House of Representatives. He 
goes on Steve Bannon's podcast, and he makes noises about the 
next insurrection. A year after the election was over, he said: 
If they want an insurrection, they keep pushing this, they are 
going to push the American people over the freaking edge.
    Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice Chair, the American people opposed 
the January 6th insurrection, and the American people oppose 
future insurrections and coups against our Government. We are 
fighting to defend the institutions and values of democracy at 
home against coup plotters and insurrectionists, and we are 
supporting other democracies around the world under siege by 
autocrats and kleptocrats, bullies and despots. We are on the 
side of the people of Ukraine against Vladimir Putin, who is 
not a genius but a mass murderer. We stand strong on the side 
of democracy, freedom, the Constitution, and the rule of law 
against people who smashed our police officers in the face with 
Confederate battle flags and tried to cancel out the results of 
our Presidential election.
    These two men are in contempt of Congress, and we must cite 
them both for their brazen disregard for their duties and for 
our laws and institutions.
    I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Virginia, Mrs. 
Luria.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    I want to thank my colleagues on the Committee for their 
commitment to providing a full and factual accounting of 
everything that led to January 6th, the events of that day, and 
to ensure that such an attack on our Republic never happens 
again.
    Mr. Chair, I served in the Navy for 20 years, and when you 
talk to people in the military, that is what they say; they say 
they serve in the military, they serve the American people. 
Today, I continue to serve, as we all do on this Committee.
    When Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro entered the 
administration, they agreed to serve the American people. The 
President, who serves the American people, has a unique duty 
under the Constitution to take care that the laws be faithfully 
executed. Those that serve under the President, especially 
those closest to him in the administration, are integral to 
performing that duty to take care that the laws are faithfully 
executed, not to undermine those laws.
    Congress has a constitutional duty to investigate, and we 
have a duty to the American people to investigate the violent 
attack on our Capitol that attempted to prevent the peaceful 
transition of power.
    Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro have a duty to respond to the 
subpoenas of this Committee. However, they have decided 
apparently that they are above the law. Fifty years ago this 
year, a small group of people in the Nixon administration also 
decided they were above the law. They engineered a cover-up to 
hold on to political power. They were almost successful, but it 
took Congress, the Senate to get to the truth, a truth that the 
American people deserved.
    This Committee has conducted more than 800 voluntary 
depositions and interviews, with more scheduled, including 
witnesses who worked in the previous administration. The 
Committee has received nearly 90,000 documents pertaining to 
January 6th. We followed up on more than 435 tips received 
through the Committee's tip line. Hundreds of witnesses have 
voluntarily come forward and cooperated with our investigation. 
However, Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro refuse to answer this 
constitutional duty.
    Why are they special? Why is it, when we get closer and 
closer to the former President, his inner circle, those nearest 
to the President, why are those the ones who refuse to tell the 
American people what they know? What is it they are covering 
up?
    Now Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro have attempted to obstruct 
the pursuit of justice and to stonewall this Committee's work 
and conceal the truth, despite both publicly acknowledging 
their roles in promoting election fraud conspiracies and 
counseling the former President on changing the outcome of the 
election.
    What, Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro, are you covering up? Who 
are you covering for?
    We have been through this process before.
    What, Mr. Meadows, are you covering up? Who are you 
covering for?
    When given the opportunity to tell the truth about the 
attack on January 6th, both Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro 
continue to put loyalty to Donald Trump before the Constitution 
and the American people.
    Tonight, I will vote to hold Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro 
accountable for their actions and recommend that the House of 
Representatives cite both of them for contempt of Congress. The 
Department of Justice must act swiftly. I will echo what my 
colleagues have already said, but more bluntly: Attorney 
General Garland, do your job so that we can do ours.
    I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    If there is no further debate, I now recognize the 
gentlewoman from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for a motion.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee 
favorably report to the House the Committee's Report on a 
Resolution Recommending that the House of Representatives Find 
Peter K. Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., in Contempt of 
Congress for Refusal to Comply with Subpoenas Duly Issued by 
the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
the United States Capitol.
    Chairman Thompson. The question is on the motion to 
favorably report to the House.
    Those in favor, say ``aye.''
    Those opposed, say ``no.''
    In the opinion of the Chair, the ayes have it.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Mr. Chairman, I request a recorded vote.
    Chairman Thompson. A recorded vote is requested.
    The clerk will call the roll.
    [The clerk called the roll, and the result was announced as 
follows:]

                     Select Committee Rollcall No. 4
                Motion by Ms. Cheney to Favorably Report
                       Agreed to: 9 ayes to 0 noes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          Members                               Vote
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ms. Cheney, Vice Chair....................................          Aye
Ms. Lofgren...............................................          Aye
Mr. Schiff................................................          Aye
Mr. Aguilar...............................................          Aye
Mrs. Murphy (FL)..........................................          Aye
Mr. Raskin................................................          Aye
Mrs. Luria................................................          Aye
Mr. Kinzinger.............................................          Aye
Mr. Thompson (MS), Chairman...............................          Aye
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Chairman Thompson. The motion is agree to.
    The Vice Chair is recognized.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to clause 2(l) of 
rule XI, I request that Members have 2 calendar days in which 
to file with the clerk of the Committee supplemental or 
additional views on the measure ordered reported by the 
Committee tonight.
    Chairman Thompson. So ordered.
    Without objection, staff is authorized to make any 
necessary technical or conforming changes to the report to 
reflect the actions of the Committee.
    There being no further business, without objection, the 
Select Committee stands adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 8:40 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.]



                            A P P E N D I X

                              ----------                              

 Report on a Resolution Recommending that the House of Representatives 
Find Peter K. Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., in Contempt of Congress 
    for Refusal to Comply with Subpoenas Duly Issued by the Select 
 Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
                                Capitol
                                
                                
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]


                               APPENDIX I
                               
                               EXHIBIT 1
                               
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 2
                               
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

                               EXHIBIT 3
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT>

                               EXHIBIT 4
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]


                               EXHIBIT 5
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

                               EXHIBIT 6
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

                               EXHIBIT 7
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 8
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                              APPENDIX II
                              
                               EXHIBIT 1
                               
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 2
                               
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 3
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 4
<[RAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 5
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

                               EXHIBIT 6
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 7
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 8
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 9
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 10
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 11
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]


                               EXHIBIT 12
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 13
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 14
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]


                               EXHIBIT 15
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                               EXHIBIT 16
[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]



                                 
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 200 (Thursday, December 22, 2022)]
[House]
[Pages H9990-H10002]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      PRESIDENTIAL TAX FILINGS AND AUDIT TRANSPARENCY ACT OF 2022

  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1529, I call up 
the bill (H.R. 9640) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
provide for examination and disclosure with respect to Presidential 
income tax returns, and ask for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs. Luria). Pursuant to House Resolution 
1529, the bill is considered read.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 9640

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Presidential Tax Filings and 
     Audit Transparency Act of 2022''.

     SEC. 2. EXAMINATION AND DISCLOSURE WITH RESPECT TO 
                   PRESIDENTIAL INCOME TAX RETURNS.

       (a) Audit.--Subchapter A of chapter 78 of the Internal 
     Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating section 7613 
     as section 7614 and by inserting after section 7612 the 
     following new section:

     ``SEC. 7613. EXAMINATION WITH RESPECT TO PRESIDENTIAL INCOME 
                   TAX RETURNS.

       ``(a) In General.--As rapidly as practicable after the 
     filing of any Presidential income tax return, the Secretary 
     shall conduct an examination to ascertain the correctness of 
     such return and enforce the requirements of this title with 
     respect to the taxable year covered by such return.
       ``(b) Reports.--
       ``(1) Initial report.--Not later than 90 days after the 
     filing of a Presidential income tax return, the Secretary 
     shall disclose and make publicly available an initial report 
     regarding the examination with respect to such return. Such 
     report shall include--
       ``(A) the name of the taxpayer,
       ``(B) an identification of the subparagraph of subsection 
     (c)(1) which describes such return,
       ``(C) the date that such return was filed, and
       ``(D) the date on which the examination with respect to 
     such return commenced (or, if such examination has not 
     commenced as of the date of such report, a detailed 
     description of the reasons that such examination has not 
     commenced).
       ``(2) Periodic reports.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     disclosure of the report described in paragraph (1) with 
     respect to any

[[Page H9991]]

     Presidential income tax return and not later than 180 days 
     after the most recent disclosure of a report described in 
     this paragraph with respect to such return, the Secretary 
     shall disclose and make publicly available a periodic report 
     regarding the examination with respect to such return. Such 
     report shall include--
       ``(A) the information described in subparagraphs (A) 
     through (D) of paragraph (1),
       ``(B) a description of the status of the examination, 
     including a description of the portions of the examination 
     which have been completed, which are in process, and which 
     are anticipated to take place, and
       ``(C) an estimate of the time frame for the completion of 
     the examination, including an identification of factors which 
     could alter such time frame, reasonable estimates of the 
     likelihood of such factors (taking into account the specific 
     facts and circumstances of the examination), and the likely 
     specific effects of such factors on such time frame.

     Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a periodic report 
     shall not be required under this paragraph with respect to 
     any return after the date on which a final report is 
     disclosed under paragraph (3) with respect to such return.
       ``(3) Final report.--Not later than 90 days after the 
     completion of the examination described in subsection (a) 
     with respect to any Presidential income tax return, the 
     Secretary shall disclose and make publicly available a final 
     report regarding such examination. Such report shall 
     include--
       ``(A) the information described in subparagraphs (A) 
     through (C) of paragraph (1),
       ``(B) the date on which the examination with respect to 
     such return was completed,
       ``(C) a list of the audit materials (as defined in section 
     6103(q)(2)) with respect to such examination, and
       ``(D) a description (including the amount) of each proposed 
     adjustment, adjustment, and controversy with respect to such 
     examination together with a description of how such proposed 
     adjustment or controversy was resolved (or a statement that 
     such proposed adjustment or controversy was not resolved, as 
     the case may be).

     For purposes of this paragraph, an examination shall be 
     treated as complete on the date that the Secretary provides 
     the taxpayer with a notice of deficiency, or any closing 
     document referred to in section 6103(q)(2)(A)(v), with 
     respect to such examination.
       ``(4) Extension of due date report.--If a request is made 
     for an extension of the due date for filing any Presidential 
     income tax return, the Secretary shall, not later than 90 
     days after such request is granted or denied, disclose and 
     make publicly available an extension of due date report with 
     respect to return. Such report shall include--
       ``(A) the information described in subparagraphs (A) and 
     (B) of paragraph (1),
       ``(B) a statement that an extension of the due date for the 
     filing of such return has been requested,
       ``(C) the date that such request was received,
       ``(D) a statement of whether such request has been granted 
     or denied, and
       ``(E) the due date of such return (including any 
     extensions).
       ``(5) Treatment of failure to file.--In the case of a 
     failure to file a Presidential income tax return before the 
     close of the 60-day period beginning with the date prescribed 
     for filing of such return--
       ``(A) the Secretary shall conduct the examination described 
     in subsection (a) with respect to the taxable year covered by 
     the return to which such failure relates,
       ``(B) reports made pursuant to this paragraph shall include 
     a statement that such report is with respect to a return 
     which the taxpayer failed to file, and
       ``(C) this section and section 6103(q) shall otherwise 
     apply to such failure in the same manner as if a return were 
     filed at the close of such period.

     The application of this paragraph with respect to any failure 
     to file a Presidential income tax return shall not prevent 
     the application of this section with respect to such return 
     at such time as such return may be filed.
       ``(6) Public availability.--For purposes of this 
     subsection, a document shall not be treated as having been 
     made publicly available unless made available on the 
     internet.
       ``(c) Presidential Income Tax Return.--For purposes of this 
     section--
       ``(1) In general.--The term `Presidential income tax 
     return' means any relevant income tax return of--
       ``(A) a President,
       ``(B) an individual who is married (within the meaning of 
     section 7703(a)) to a President for the taxable year to which 
     such return relates,
       ``(C) any corporation or partnership which is controlled by 
     any individual described in subparagraph (A) or (B) at any 
     time during the taxable year to which such return relates,
       ``(D) the estate of any person described in (A) or (B) or 
     any estate with respect to which any person described in 
     subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) is an executor, or beneficiary 
     at any time during the taxable year to which such return 
     relates, and
       ``(E) any trust with respect to which any person described 
     in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D) is a grantor, fiduciary 
     or beneficiary, or for which another trust described in this 
     subparagraph is a grantor or beneficiary, at any time during 
     the taxable year to which such return relates.
     Such term shall include any schedule, attachment, or other 
     document filed with such return.
       ``(2) Relevant income tax return.--The term `relevant 
     income tax return' means, with respect to a President, any 
     income tax return if--
       ``(A) any portion of the taxable year to which such return 
     relates is during the period that such President is the 
     President,
       ``(B) the due date for such return (including any 
     extensions) is during such period, or
       ``(C) such return is filed during such period.
       ``(3) Control.--For purposes of paragraph (1)(C)--
       ``(A) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
     paragraph, control shall be determined under the rules of 
     paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 6038(e) (determined without 
     regard to subparagraphs (A) and (B) of such paragraph (2) and 
     without regard to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (3) thereof).
       ``(B) Restriction on family attribution.--
       ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in clause (ii), for 
     purposes of applying subparagraph (A)--

       ``(I) section 318 shall applied without regard to 
     subsection (a)(1)(A)(ii) thereof, and
       ``(II) section 267(c) shall applied by treating the family 
     of an individual as including only such individual's spouse 
     (in lieu of the application of paragraph (4) thereof).

       ``(ii) Exception for recent transfer to family members.--
     For purposes of determining whether any corporation or 
     partnership is controlled by a President under paragraph 
     (1)(C) for any taxable year, clause (i) shall not apply if 
     such corporation or partnership was controlled by such 
     President (after application of clause (i)) at any time 
     during the 4 immediately preceding taxable years.
       ``(d) Application to Amended Returns.--For purposes of this 
     section and section 6103(q), any amendment or supplement to a 
     return of tax shall be treated as a separate return of tax 
     and the determination of when such amendment or supplement is 
     filed, and whether such amendment or supplement is a relevant 
     income tax return, shall be made without regard to the 
     underlying return.''.
       (b) Disclosure.--Section 6103 of such Code is amended by 
     redesignating subsection (q) as subsection (r) and by 
     inserting after subsection (p) the following new subsection:
       ``(q) Disclosure With Respect to Presidential Income Tax 
     Returns.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall disclose and make 
     publicly available (within the meaning of section 7613(b))--
       ``(A) each Presidential income tax return (as defined in 
     section 7613(c)),
       ``(B) each report described in section 7613(b), and
       ``(C) any audit materials with respect a return described 
     in subparagraph (A).
       ``(2) Audit materials.--The term `audit materials' means, 
     with respect to any return:
       ``(A) Any of the following which are provided by the 
     Secretary to the taxpayer (or any designee of the taxpayer):
       ``(i) Any written communication which identifies such 
     return as being subject to examination.
       ``(ii) Any written communication which proposes the 
     adjustment of any item on such return, any report by an 
     examiner related to such proposed adjustment, and any 
     supervisory approval of any penalty proposed as part of such 
     adjustment.
       ``(iii) Any memorandum or report of the Internal Revenue 
     Service Independent Office of Appeals with respect to such 
     return, and any denial of any request described in 
     subparagraph (B).
       ``(iv) Any notice of deficiency with respect to such 
     return.
       ``(v) Any closing documents with respect to the examination 
     of such return, including any closing agreement or no change 
     letter.
       ``(B) Any request for referral to the Internal Revenue 
     Service Independent Office of Appeals of any controversy with 
     respect to such return.
       ``(C) Any petition filed with the Tax Court for a 
     redetermination of any deficiency referred to in subparagraph 
     (A)(iv).
       ``(3) Exception for certain identity information.--The 
     information disclosed and made publicly available under 
     paragraph (1) shall not include any identification number of 
     any person (including any social security number), any 
     financial account number, the name of any individual who has 
     not attained age 18 (as of the close of the taxable year to 
     which the return relates), the name of any employee of the 
     Department of the Treasury, or any address (other than the 
     city and State in which such address is located).
       ``(4) Timing of disclosures.--Any information required to 
     be disclosed under paragraph (1) shall be disclosed and made 
     publicly available not later than--
       ``(A) in the case of any income tax return referred to in 
     paragraph (1)(A), 90 days after the date that such return is 
     filed,
       ``(B) in the case of any report referred to in paragraph 
     (1)(B), the deadline specified in section 7613(b) for 
     disclosing such report, and
       ``(C) in the case of the audit materials referred to in 
     paragraph (1)(C), 90 days after the completion of the 
     examination (within the meaning of section 7613(b)(3)) with 
     respect to the return to which such audit materials 
     relate.''.

[[Page H9992]]

       (c) Clerical Amendment.--Subchapter A of chapter 78 of such 
     Code is amended by redesignating the item relating to section 
     7613 as an item relating to section 7614 and by inserting 
     after the item relating to section 7612 the following new 
     item:

``Sec. 7613. Examination with respect to Presidential income tax 
              returns.''.

       (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
     shall apply to returns, amendments, and supplements filed 
     (and failures to file returns which occur) after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act (and to reports and audit materials 
     with respect to such returns, amendments, supplements, and 
     failures).

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill shall be debatable for 1 hour, 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective designees.
  The gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Neal) and the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Brady) each will control 30 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Massachusetts.


                             General Leave

  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous material on the bill that is under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Massachusetts?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Madam Speaker, let me quickly lend my voice to having witnessed a 
superb legislator, Mr. Hoyer, over a long career, and that is exactly 
what the gentleman was and is: a superb legislator.
  Madam Speaker, we are here this morning to affirm that, in America, 
we are a Nation of equal citizens. No person is above the law.
  By doing that, we honor the acknowledgment of congressional oversight 
and responsibility. Congress has a responsibility that dates to Magna 
Carta, and I am prepared to go back to the Battle of Hastings, if 
necessary, in 1066 to make the argument that I have just offered.
  The Ways and Means Committee is entrusted with the oversight of our 
revenue system. The Ways and Means Committee and staff members all 
honor that very profound tradition.
  At the root of it all this morning is our Federal tax system that 
funds the democracy that we all love and cherish. We rely on voluntary 
tax compliance from all Americans and perhaps especially the President, 
who always should model the highest order of compliance.
  On December 13, 49 years ago this month, President Richard Nixon 
asked the Ways and Means Committee chairman through a letter to have 
the Joint Committee on Taxation review his tax returns.
  Let me say something about the Joint Committee on Taxation. Both 
political parties hold the JCT in the highest personal and professional 
esteem.
  This examination established the precedent for congressional 
oversight of Presidential tax compliance.

                              {time}  0945

  Four years ago, our committee began reviewing the mandatory audit of 
Presidential tax returns to see how the IRS was handling the stress of 
a President with complex finances.
  The committee expected to find that mandatory examinations were 
conducted promptly and that more staff had been dedicated to the 
program to meet the more rigorous demands. I would remind all that this 
morning's New York Times--that I read online last evening--highlights 
the fact that Barack Obama and Joe Biden both had their tax forms 
reviewed.
  Instead, after years of stonewalling and litigation that ended at the 
Supreme Court, four Federal court decisions from three courts, our 
committee found that for all practical purposes the mandatory audit 
program was dormant. It wasn't just functioning poorly; it wasn't 
functioning at all. In fact, the IRS did not start its mandatory audits 
until receiving a letter that I sent requesting a President's tax 
forms.
  The IRS has failed to administer its own mandatory audit program 
policies, so the best available recourse is for Congress to fill this 
void with legislation that eliminates the IRS's discretion in the 
matter. That is precisely what we are asking of this institution this 
morning. I can't imagine that anybody, given the controversy of recent 
days, would be opposed to legislation.
  We would require the IRS to publish the President's tax returns, 
audit them in a timely manner, and keep the American public updated on 
the results because the President is not an ordinary taxpayer.
  A reminder, our legislation is about the Presidency, not about a 
President.
  No other American holds this power, or influence, as the leader of 
our executive branch.
  We arrived at this legislation through a deliberate and cautious 
process, as always. These improved guardrails will provide Americans 
the assurance they deserve that our tax code applies evenly and fairly 
to all of us, no matter how powerful.
  The Ways and Means Committee oversight staff pursued the facts about 
mandatory examination procedures with professionalism and diligence. 
They did a great job. I emphasize that there were no leaks by the 
committee leading up to this decision to release our report on the 
mandatory examination process. Imagine that, in Washington for 
something this complex, no leaks.
  We adhered carefully and scrupulously to the law and resisted 
entreaties from the fringe of both political parties as we proceeded 
with great patience and deliberation. No leaks as to how we were to 
move forward.
  This bill, combined with investments in the IRS that we made as part 
of the Inflation Reduction Act, will preserve the integrity of the 
Presidency and our system of tax and ensure that no one in the country 
is above the law.
  Today's legislation, I repeat, is not about a President, it is about 
the Presidency.
  It is not about being punitive or malicious. And for those on the 
other side and those who are witnesses here today, they have worked 
with me for a long time, and they know what I just said is entirely 
accurate.
  The bill we consider today, once again, is about the integrity of the 
Presidency and the integrity of our tax system.
  Madam Speaker, finally, I include in the Record a technical 
explanation of the bill prepared by the staff on the Joint Committee on 
Taxation, which can be found at https://www.jct.gov/publications/2022/
jcx-20-22/
 Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I urge our colleagues to pass this 
legislation, and for the moment, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman Neal for his leadership of this 
committee and his friendship. You care about the institution; you care 
about this committee. Your word has always been good, and together our 
committees have done good things: banning surprise medical billing, new 
trade agreements with Mexico and Canada, repeated efforts to help 
people save. It has been an honor to serve with you.
  Now, if you will excuse me, I intend to peel the bark off this bill 
in front of us right now.
  Madam Speaker, this bill is a charade. It is a flimsy excuse that for 
years has been used to justify the political targeting of former 
President Trump.
  This week, Democrats in Congress finally accomplished their goal: for 
the first time in history making public the full, actual tax returns of 
a private citizen. This unprecedented action jeopardizes the right of 
every American to be protected from political targeting by Congress.
  We are told President Trump's returns must be released in order for 
the IRS to conduct its Presidential audits. That is absurd. That is 
like going to the doctor and being told your private medical records 
must be released in order to be examined. One has nothing to do with 
the other. And then you would quickly realize, someone just wants to 
release your medical records, and any excuse will do.
  Let me be clear: Republicans' concerns are not whether the President 
should have made his tax returns public as has been tradition, nor 
about the accuracy of his tax returns, that is for the IRS and the 
taxpayer to determine.
  Our concern is that this politically motivated action sets a terrible 
precedent that unleashes a dangerous new

[[Page H9993]]

political weapon reaching far beyond any President, and overturns 
decades of privacy protections for average Americans that have existed 
since the Watergate reforms.
  Our current law was put in place specifically to prevent Presidents 
and Members of Congress from targeting political enemies through their 
tax returns. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court chose not to intervene to 
stop the flimsy and admittedly partisan Democrat efforts to target the 
former President.

  Now, as a result, thanks to this week's actions, longstanding privacy 
protections for all taxpayers have been gutted.
  Going forward, the majority chairman of the House Ways and Means 
Committee and the Senate Financial Committee will have nearly unlimited 
power to target and make public the tax returns of private citizens, 
political enemies, business and labor leaders, or even the Supreme 
Court Justices themselves.
  No party in Congress should hold that power. No individual should 
hold that power to embarrass, harass, or destroy a private citizen 
through disclosure of their private tax returns.
  After nearly half a century, the political enemies list is back in 
Washington, D.C., and it will unleash a cycle of political retribution 
in Congress.
  Many of us in Congress believed the current law was strong enough to 
protect private citizens against this political targeting, but it is no 
longer. That is frightening.
  Republicans will continue to fight to protect American taxpayers from 
this abuse of power that will surely have severe consequences for 
taxpayers and democracy for years to come.
  We have urged our Democrat friends to turn back because making 
private tax information public will be a regrettable stain, both on our 
committee and on Congress. It will make American politics even more 
ugly and divisive. In the long run, we believe every Member of Congress 
will come to regret this.
  Madam Speaker, we strongly oppose this bill today. Not because 
portions of it doesn't have merit, some do, but it has serious flaws, 
of course, because it didn't exist 48 hours ago.
  And had it been brought forward 4 years ago, 3 years ago, 2 years 
ago, as an honest attempt to improve Presidential audits, I am 
convinced we could have found common ground with no need to expose 
private tax returns of anyone. But not now, not this bill, and not this 
way.
  Republicans will not support any measure whose only purpose is to 
provide cover for the political targeting of a private citizen.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I still intend to say kind things about the 
ranking member despite peeling the bark off my legislation.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
Kildee), a leader on this issue of tax compliance.
  Mr. KILDEE. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation, the 
Presidential Tax Filings and Audit Transparency Act, legislation that 
ensures that we protect our tax system and ensures that it is fair and 
transparent for all Americans.
  As we have heard, the purpose of the Ways and Means Committee 
investigation and the purpose of this legislation is to ensure that no 
American is above the law, even the President of the United States.
  But shockingly, under the former President, the IRS was not examining 
the President's tax returns as required by their own policy as it had 
for other Presidents before and since. It did not follow its own rules. 
Because of this, there are still glaring questions about whether the 
former President was abiding by our tax laws.
  That is why we needed the information, and that is why we need this 
legislation to require the IRS to examine Presidential returns in a 
timely and complete manner. The American people must have confidence 
that our tax laws apply evenly and justly to everyone.
  Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman Neal for his leadership on this. In 
passing this, we will ensure integrity in our tax system.
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I include in the Record an article from 
yesterday's Los Angeles Times confirming the release of tax returns 
does nothing to evaluate the IRS auditing process or to advance any 
legitimate oversight goal.

              [From the Los Angeles Times, Dec. 21, 2022]

  Column: Should Congress Post Trump's Tax Returns Publicly? I Don't 
                                Think So

                         (By Nicholas Goldberg)

       Donald Trump should have released his tax returns when he 
     was running for president, and in not doing so he was 
     deceptive, sleazy and in violation of a long-standing 
     tradition that fosters transparency and honesty. He obviously 
     hoped to hide unfavorable information from the voters.
       Despite that, I don't believe the House Ways and Means 
     Committee should release his tax returns to the public now.
       The committee fought a long battle all the way to the 
     Supreme Court to obtain copies of the returns. It argued that 
     it needed them to evaluate the effectiveness of an IRS 
     program that audits the tax filings of presidents.
       Republicans squawked all the way, saying the Democrats who 
     controlled the committee were being disingenuous, and that 
     no, no, no, they weren't seeking to do a legitimate 
     evaluation--they were just creating a pretext to get ahold of 
     Trump's returns for a humiliating public fishing expedition 
     into what taxes had or hadn't been paid.
       The courts ultimately ruled that the committee could have 
     six years of Trump's federal tax returns. That battle ended 
     last month.
       But on Tuesday, the committee voted to do something that 
     goes well beyond what's necessary to evaluate the IRS' 
     presidential audit program: The committee is now going to 
     release Trump's taxes publicly, posting the full returns 
     (minus certain identifiers like Social Security numbers and 
     bank account numbers) for all to see. And quickly too, in the 
     coming days, before the Democrats lose control of the 
     committee to the Republicans on Jan. 3.
       Why make the returns public? How does that help Congress 
     figure out whether the IRS auditing process is working? How 
     does it further the legitimate oversight goals of the 
     committee?
       Answer: It doesn't. It turns out the Republicans are right. 
     (This may be the first time since the Civil War.) As they 
     correctly noted, this is a politically motivated move to 
     release information that might harm or embarrass the former 
     president.
       In theory, I'm all for embarrassing Trump. (With these two 
     caveats: First, no one can embarrass Trump more than he 
     embarrasses himself, and second, he's entirely shameless so 
     he doesn't really get embarrassed in any normal sense of the 
     word.) The ex-president is a dishonest thug who needs to be 
     called to account for his misbehavior.
       But in this particular case, I think the Democrats are in 
     the wrong. For one thing, releasing the private tax returns 
     probably won't shed much light on anything. The New York 
     Times already received leaked details of more than two 
     decades of Trump's tax filings and published long stories 
     that should've shocked the world. Billionaire pays less in 
     federal taxes in some years than you and I do! Trump paid no 
     federal income taxes at all in 10 out of 15 years!
       Furthermore, the Manhattan district attorney's office has 
     many of Trump's tax returns as well, and prosecutors can 
     pursue cases using the data they uncover.
       But the main reason I object to posting the returns is that 
     I worry--perhaps quaintly, in this day and age--about the 
     continued politicization of governmental processes, and the 
     continued breaking of established norms, in this case making 
     private tax filings public. I know I'll get a thousand emails 
     saying ``the Republicans wouldn't hesitate to do the same to 
     us'' and ``if we're civil and respectful and always play by 
     Marquess of Queensberry rules while our political opponents 
     continue their underhanded tricks, we will always be 
     beaten.''
       There's certainly some truth to that. But there's truth to 
     the flip side too: If nobody plays by the rules, there will 
     soon be no rules to play by. When you're doing something as 
     sensitive and politically explosive as investigating a former 
     president--at a tense time in history when there's talk of 
     civil war and violence is on the rise and bitter political 
     partisanship is smoldering--it makes sense to be careful to 
     respect the established process, be as honest as possible, 
     refrain from unnecessary politicization and not escalate 
     conflict unnecessarily.
       Among other things, posting Trump's taxes seems likely to 
     result in tit-for-tat posting of other people's private tax 
     returns. Will we soon be seeing Hunter Biden's tax returns on 
     the web?
       It'll also give Republicans some basis for saying that, 
     actually, it is Democrats who go low when others go high.
       Unsurprisingly, the committee vote was along party lines. 
     Like so much of what goes on in Washington these days.
       If Congress thinks all presidents or presidential 
     candidates should release their tax returns for public 
     scrutiny--which I believe is a good idea--it should pass a 
     law that mandates that going forward. It should not find 
     circuitous, pretextual ways of going after particular 
     presidents.
       The returns the Ways and Means Committee received 
     apparently showed that Trump often paid little or nothing in 
     federal income taxes between 2015 and 2020 despite reporting 
     millions in earnings, thanks to

[[Page H9994]]

     steep losses elsewhere. That's similar to what the New York 
     Times found in its reporting.
       The unembarrassable Trump once said in a debate when 
     Hillary Clinton accused him of not paying much in federal 
     taxes: ``That makes me smart.''
       Voters need to know more about the sources and scope of 
     presidential candidates' wealth and about potential conflicts 
     of interests.
       But posting Trump's returns at this point and under these 
     circumstances and given the arguments that were made to 
     obtain them, serves politics much more than transparency.

  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Nebraska (Mr. Smith).
  Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam Speaker, if I might, I thank the 
gentleman for yielding me time. This is probably his last time managing 
a bill, and I thank him for his dedication and diligence as ranking 
member.
  Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to this bill. I 
think it is one of the most unnecessarily divisive efforts in modern 
history. It has been rushed to the floor with no notice, no hearing, no 
markup, and certainly no opportunity to amend it.
  We are only here as an excuse for Democrats' last-minute rush to 
weaponize private taxpayer information against their opponents. Much of 
the oversight of the Presidential audit program Democrats claim to have 
been seeking could have been conducted without accessing or releasing 
anyone's confidential tax information.
  The Inspector General and the Joint Committee on Taxation could have 
provided an analysis of the start and completion dates of Presidential 
audits without Democrats obtaining or releasing confidential tax 
information.
  The JCT could have provided us an analysis of the efficacy of 
Presidential audits without Democrats obtaining or releasing the 
private tax returns.
  Instead, we are debating a bill which will never be considered in the 
Senate or become law, but solely to paper over the bad decision that 
Democrats made only two nights ago.
  Let's defeat this bill today and start over in January with a 
bipartisan effort to ensure the Presidential audit program is working 
as intended, making sure the President and his family are following the 
law, without rushing to cancel anyone's 6103 protections.
  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, a reminder, 9 out of the last 10 Presidents 
of the United States have publicly offered their tax forms.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. 
Danny K. Davis), one of the leaders on this issue.
  Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I thank the chairman 
for putting this bill together.
  We live in a country that is governed by a Constitution, laws, rules, 
and regulations. There are no exemptions, there are no people who could 
be let off because of a position that they hold.
  Tradition has it that we have seen the public is desirous of 
information. They want to know, and I think it is our responsibility to 
make sure that they do.
  Madam Speaker, I strongly support this legislation.
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Kelly), the Republican leader of the Select Revenue 
Measures Subcommittee.
  Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, this phrase keeps coming up 
that no person is above the law. That is true. But, also, no person is 
denied protection under the law.
  Why would we wait 4 years?
  Why would this come up at this time that we have to check the former 
President of the United States' tax returns?
  The answer is because we want to make them public.
  Why do we want to make them public?
  Because we need to have every single citizen understand just who this 
person is and what is in their tax returns with no regard to the 
protections that are already in place that these kinds of things don't 
happen, that they do not become a political weapon.
  Yet, now in the very last days of this session, we have decided that 
this is the most important thing this Congress can do. No other 
President has ever gone through this type of scrutiny.

                              {time}  1000

  We keep saying he is not above the law. He is not above the law. The 
truth of it all is, he is not protected by the law because we are going 
to change the law. We are going to make it a weapon that we can go 
after.
  I will just tell you this: The American people continue to lose 
faith, trust, and confidence in a system that cherry-picks what it 
decides to go after and go after in a way that is detrimental to the 
very form of government that we have.
  To be here today, talking about this, in the last hours of this 
session, has nothing to do with what is good for the American people. 
It is a political hit job. It is sad and, especially in this age, for 
the Ways and Means to be doing this at the end of the year? Horrible.
  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, we were not granted this information until 
the Supreme Court ruled on November 23, and we did not pursue this 
legislation at the last minute. We went through the regular order here, 
indeed, with the gentlewoman from California, who did a great job on 
this. She represented the committee at the Rules Committee session 
yesterday.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from California 
(Ms. Chu).
  Ms. CHU. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 9640, 
the Presidential Tax Filings and Audit Transparency Act of 2022.
  This week, I was shocked to find that the IRS did not comply with its 
own mandate to conduct annual audits of the President's tax returns.
  This mandatory Presidential audit has been in place since 1977. Yet, 
during Trump's 4 years in office, only one mandatory audit was even 
started and none of the audits were completed. The majority of audits 
weren't even started until Trump left office.
  The American people deserve transparency and checks and balances for 
the President, the most powerful person in the world. The bill before 
us would ensure the integrity of this audit in Federal statute and show 
the American public that no one is above the law. I urge my colleagues 
to vote ``yes.''
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I include in the Record one page from the 
Democrats' own report showing that, contrary to what we just heard, 
every single year, tax returns at issue are under audit, debunking this 
claim that the IRS hasn't examined the tax return.
       Notably, the IRS sent a letter to the former President 
     notifying him that his tax year 2015 return was selected for 
     examination on April 3, 2019, which is the date the Chairman 
     sent the initial request to the IRS for the former 
     President's return information and related tax returns.
       The designated agents were told by the IRS that two of the 
     entities the Chairman requested were included in the 
     mandatory audit program--DJT Holdings LLC and DJT Holdings 
     Managing Member LLC (DJTH Managing Member). The designated 
     agents found the below information regarding DJT Holdings 
     LLC's date of filing on the transcripts and selection for 
     examination and very little information for DJTH Managing 
     Member.
        Tax Year, Date Return Filed, Date Selected for 
     Examination, Designated by IRS as Mandatory Audit:
       2015, October 10, 2016, July 25, 2019, No.
       2016, October 16, 2017, February 11, 2020, No indication.
       2017, October 8, 2018, March 19, 2021, No.
       2018, October 21, 2019, January 28, 2022, No.
       2019, October 12, 2020, April 5, 2022, No.
       2020, February 21, 2022, None, No.
       During the prior Administration, it was clear that the 
     mandatory audit program was not a priority and was not 
     provided with the resources needed to ensure compliance by 
     the former President. An internal IRS memo stated: ``With 
     over 400 flow-thru returns reported on the Form 1040, it is 
     not possible to obtain the resources available to examine all 
     potential issues.'' The designated agents found that the 
     following issues, among others, warranted examination by the 
     IRS:
       Charitable contributions--whether the 2015 conservation 
     easement deduction of $21 million and other large donations 
     reported on the Schedule A were supported by required 
     substantiation.
       Verification of Net Operating Loss Carryover Schedule--
     whether the amount of net operating loss carryover in 2015 of 
     $105,157,825 and future years was proper.
       Unreimbursed partnership/S corporation expenses--whether 
     the terms of the partnership agreements supported 
     unreimbursed expense deductions totaling $27 million over six 
     years.
       Related party loans--whether loans made to the former 
     President's children are loans or disguised gifts that could 
     trigger gift tax.
       Cost of goods sold deductions by DJT Holdings--whether 
     these deductions of about

[[Page H9995]]

     $126.5 million over five years is appropriate when it is not 
     clear what DJT Holdings is selling from the face of the 
     return.
       LFB Acquisition LLC--whether there is any support for 
     changes in the management fees and general and administrative 
     expenses of LFB Acquisition that were significantly higher in 
     2017 ($1.9 million and $2.8 million, respectively) than 2016 
     ($750,000 and $549,000, respectively) and 2018 ($707,000 and 
     $570,000, respectively).
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from 
Missouri (Mr. Smith), the Republican leader of the Budget Committee.
  Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, we are 12 days, 12 days until 
the Democrat majority does not exist. In 13 days, the Republican 
majority will be in charge.
  Americans are facing the highest spike in prices in 40 years because 
of the one-party Democrat rule in Washington, because of their reckless 
spending.
  The Ways and Means Committee is the committee that affects the 
economy more than any committee in all of Congress. What do the House 
Democrats feel like their last 12 days, their biggest priority is not 
solving issues affecting working-class Americans, but issues targeting 
their main political opponents.
  This legislation is only cover for what they have been campaigning on 
for years, and that is, to get Trump's tax returns.
  Let me tell you, if you don't believe me now, this is called the 
mandatory audit program. It is about auditing all current and former 
Presidents to make sure their tax returns are audited. But the chairman 
of this committee only requested how the mandatory audit program has 
worked for one President, one, and it was a Republican President. His 
name was Donald Trump.
  I asked, on Tuesday, did you request a mandatory audit review process 
on Joe Biden? No.
  Did you request one on Obama? No. Clinton? No. Bush? No. Carter? No. 
But yes, only Trump.
  This is a cover for their political objective, and that is to target 
their political opponents.
  We have heard over and over that no one is above the law; that 
includes everyone in this Chamber.
  On Tuesday, when we sat in this markup, I raised the point, how can 
you release the full tax returns, with all of the private personal 
information of the private citizens, their Social Security number, 
children's Social Security numbers? And I said, we need an amendment to 
redact that information. I was told, we are not going to vote on 
amendments.
  But everyone says that no one is above the law. We were told good 
faith, good faith, would redact the full transcripts, and it would be 
decided by the majority staff.
  Has the minority staff been able to participate in it? No. We don't 
even know what the final documents of the tax returns that are going to 
be released, what they are going to look at.
  This was another example where you had to pass something before you 
know what is in it. That is what Pelosi has done this entire Congress. 
That is exactly what the Ways and Means Democrats did. They have 
charted a new territory for the Ways and Means Committee.
  It is the oldest committee in Congress. It is supposed to be the most 
bipartisan committee in Congress. But they ignited a new political 
tool, that future Congresses will now utilize.
  I have traveled all over the country, 42 States just this year alone, 
and one thing that constantly kept coming up to me is, Congressman, 
look into President Biden's family and how they have been enriched by 
his position.
  In fact, banks have flagged over 150 red flags to Treasury. These are 
suspicious activity reports. Usually, it is because they believe there 
is fraud or money laundering, and this is the Biden family bank 
accounts.
  What about the fact that foreign governments are paying to have their 
principals in the same room as Joe Biden? Or the sale of U.S. natural 
gas to China, of which the Bidens held a 10 percent equity stake, or 
business plans to sell one of the largest sources of cobalt for 
electric vehicles to China, and $11 million made from Hunter Biden's 
``work'' with a Ukraine firm and a Chinese businessman.
  Like I said, over 150 red flags or suspicious activity reports filed 
by banks.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Members are reminded to refrain from engaging in personalities toward 
the President.
  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I did indicate, I think, perhaps earlier--
maybe the gentleman was not here--that Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden both 
have had their tax forms audited. The majority staff has offered the 
minority staff, who I have great regard for, the opportunity to 
participate in the redaction process. They chose not to.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Evans), another leader on the issue of tax compliance.
  Mr. EVANS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to strongly support this 
legislation.
  I am proud to serve on the Ways and Means Committee which, under the 
chairman's strong leadership, oversees and protects our Nation's tax 
code. Tax fairness is a top priority for me and the Democratic members 
of the Ways and Means Committee.
  The chairman's legislation sends a real message of fairness, 
something we haven't seen before. I encourage all my colleagues to 
support this legislation.
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I would note that our professional staff 
was ready to join in redaction; however, we were forced to prepare for 
this floor action and offered to do that together after we were done 
this morning.
  Madam Speaker, I include in the Record a recent legal journal that 
notes that because Ways and Means Democrats did not pursue the 
Presidential audits of any of the other eight Presidents in that 
system, that the committee undermines their own credibility by 
releasing returns outside the context of a comprehensive review, an 
honest review of the Presidential audit program.

               [From Chicago-Kent Law Review, April 1999]

          I.R.C. 6103: Let's Get to the Source of the Problem

                           (By Mark Berggren)


                              INTRODUCTION

       Each year, millions of taxpayers in the United States 
     voluntarily disclose the most intimate details of their 
     private lives to the Internal Revenue Service (``IRS''). A 
     government official can glean, among other things, a 
     taxpayer's name, social security number, marital status, 
     income, and religious and political affiliations from a tax 
     return's attachments and completed schedules. Despite the 
     plethora of private information supplied to the IRS, prior to 
     the enactment of the Tax Reform Act of 1976, Internal Revenue 
     Code (``I.R.C.'') Sec. 6103 stated that a taxpayer's tax 
     return was a ``public record'' and as such was ``open to 
     inspection only upon order of the President and under rules 
     and regulations prescribed by the Secretary or his delegate 
     and approved by the President.''
       The lack of protection afforded to returns and return 
     information resulted in the widespread misuse of what 
     taxpayers believed was confidential information. These abuses 
     took the forms of the unauthorized use of tax information for 
     political purposes by presidential administrations and the 
     authorized use of tax information by governmental agencies 
     other than the IRS. However, it was not until the Watergate 
     scandal that these governmental abuses were thrust into the 
     public limelight. The Watergate investigation led to 
     allegations that President Nixon had used return information 
     for unauthorized purposes and sought to use IRS audits and 
     investigations for political purposes.
       In response to these misuses of tax information and their 
     potential effect on the voluntary assessment system, Congress 
     amended I.R.C. Sec. 6103. The amended version of Sec. 6103 
     states that return and return information (``tax 
     information'') shall be confidential and shall not be 
     disclosed except in thirteen specific circumstances. 
     Violations of this prohibition may result in criminal 
     sanctions under Sec. 7213 and civil sanctions under 
     Sec. 7431.
       These necessary amendments, however, have not silenced the 
     controversy surrounding Sec. 6103. Section 6103's thirteen 
     exceptions do not contain an exception for tax information 
     that is part of a public record. This omission forced several 
     of the Federal Courts of Appeal to consider the question of 
     whether an authorized disclosure of tax information that 
     subsequently becomes part of a public record loses its 
     Sec. 6103 protection. In order to resolve this question, the 
     Federal Courts of Appeal have adopted different approaches to 
     the problem. The Sixth and Ninth Circuits look to see if the 
     disclosed tax information has lost its confidentiality. Based 
     on this analysis, these circuits reason that tax information 
     that is part of a public record is no longer confidential 
     and, thus, loses its Sec. 6103 protection. In contrast to 
     this approach, the Fourth and Tenth Circuits look at the 
     literal language of Sec. 6103. Because Sec. 6103 has no 
     public records exception to its nondisclosure norm, these 
     circuits conclude that tax information in a public record is 
     still protected by Sec. 6103 and any subsequent disclosures 
     of that information violate Sec. 6103. Not to be outdone, the 
     Seventh and Fifth

[[Page H9996]]

     Circuits have also considered the issue. These circuits focus 
     on the source of the information disclosed. If the disclosure 
     is taken directly from a public record, the disclosure does 
     not contain tax information as statutorily defined and 
     Sec. 6103 is not violated. However, if the disclosure comes 
     directly from tax information, then Sec. 6103 is violated 
     regardless of whether the disclosure is also part of a public 
     record.
       The resolution of this issue has far-reaching implications 
     if one considers the answer's potential effect on taxpayer 
     compliance. If courts create judicial exceptions to 
     Sec. 6103, taxpayers may not comply with tax laws because 
     their tax information will not be protected from governmental 
     abuse. On the other hand, if the IRS is prevented from 
     publicizing any tax information taken from any source, it may 
     be unable to deter noncompliance. The legislative history of 
     Sec. 6103 indicates that Congress was aware of these concerns 
     and sought to balance them in Sec. 6103 in order to maximize 
     taxpayer compliance. However, both Sec. 6103 and its 
     legislative history are silent as to whether tax information 
     that is part of a public record loses its Sec. 6103 
     protection. Thus, a uniform interpretation of Sec. 6103 is 
     needed not simply for uniformity's sake, but for the effect 
     on taxpayer compliance.
       This note explores each circuit's approach to the public 
     records problem and its possible effect on taxpayer 
     compliance. Part I provides the history of Sec. 6103 with an 
     emphasis on the legislative purpose behind the 1976 
     amendments to Sec. 6103. Part II outlines the split in the 
     circuits according to the three approaches the circuits have 
     taken: the confidentiality approach, the disclosure approach, 
     and the source approach. Because the Fifth Circuit's recent 
     decision is the most comprehensive analysis of the public 
     record disclosure dilemma to date, this note discusses its 
     opinion in detail. In Part III, the note critiques each 
     approach in light of the legislative and political history 
     behind Sec. 6103. It concludes that the ``source'' approach 
     of the Seventh and Fifth Circuits is the best approach 
     because it effectuates the purpose behind Sec. 6103 without 
     imposing a judicially created exception on Sec. 6103.

  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. Estes).
  MR. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I thank my friend from Texas for yielding.
  Madam Speaker, what a shameful way for the majority to end their 
reckless tenure in House leadership.
  Today, we are debating and voting on rushed bills that will cost 
Americans trillions of dollars, expand the Federal government, and 
eviscerate personal privacy.
  The timing of this atrocious bill is an assault on the institution 
and further undermines the public trust in the United States House of 
Representatives and Federal agencies.
  Let us be clear: This bill has one purpose, to help the majority 
party justify their prejudiced release of personal and private data of 
the former President, his wife, and his 16-year-old son.
  The supporters of this bill claim that releasing personal tax returns 
is needed to prove the Presidential mandatory audit process works. It 
does not.
  Congress should oversee the Presidential mandatory audit process to 
ensure it does work correctly; but this invasion of privacy does not do 
that.
  Another point, the Presidential mandatory audit process is completely 
separate from the voluntary release of tax returns done by seven of the 
last nine Presidents.
  Democrats have supercharged the IRS weapon to not only go after 
political enemies, but their spouses and minor children, too. Minor 
children aren't even exempt from the Democrats' desire to take down 
their opponents.
  Regardless of one's political preferences or attitudes toward a 
former President, every American should be vehemently opposed to this 
un-American attack on privacy, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''
  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, the former Commissioner of the IRS has 
indicated in the last 24 hours that he had no idea as to how the actual 
audit of a President's forms played out. That is not from me; that is 
from the public record.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Panetta) who has had a profound interest in this issue.
  Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, let me start off by expressing my 
gratitude for Chairman Neal, for his seriousness, his sincerity, and 
his solemnity in his leadership in the Ways and Means Committee and in 
the way he conducted this request and release of the former President's 
tax returns and the writing of this legislation before us.
  Because of him, throughout this odyssey, the members of the Ways and 
Means Committee always knew and felt the gravity, the implications of 
what it meant to release an individual's tax returns.
  In fact, prior to this weekend, which was prior to my review of the 
former President's tax returns, I admit, I had no intent on voting to 
release them. However, that changed. That changed once we were able to 
obtain the returns, based on a valid legislative purpose and confirmed 
by the Supreme Court, go through the returns, and see the complete 
failure of the IRS when it comes to their Presidential audit program, a 
program that is absolutely necessary to ensure that the world's most 
important public servant is abiding by the law, paying his or her taxes 
like you and me, and free from any conflicts of interest.
  But clearly, the IRS doesn't appreciate, nor does it prioritize the 
importance of this program, especially during the last administration 
because, as applied to the former President, not one audit was 
completed, despite what the President said to the American public.
  That is why I support this legislation, so that any President's 
personal and business tax returns are audited and made public, and we 
are aware of those returns that are audited.
  I am proud to say that under the leadership and seriousness of 
Chairman Neal, now Congress needs to do its job and pass H.R. 9640.
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 20 seconds to note that 
every year of President Trump's tax returns are under audit.
  Madam Speaker, I include in the Record an article explaining the 
purpose of the taxpayer privacy law the Democrats have dismantled this 
week, exposing all Americans to political attack via tax information.

                    [From the Lawfare, Dec. 2, 2022]

   House Democrats Can Release Trump's Tax Returns. But Should They?

                          (By Daniel J. Hemel)

       Now that a House committee has obtained access to six years 
     of former President Trump's tax returns, congressional 
     Democrats face an easy question and a harder one.
       The easy question is whether, as a matter of law, the House 
     Ways and Means Committee--which gained access to the former 
     president's tax filings after the Supreme Court dismissed 
     Trump's last-ditch bid to block the Internal Revenue Service 
     from handing over the documents--can make Trump's returns 
     public before Republicans take control of the chamber on Jan. 
     3. The answer to that question is straightforwardly yes.
       The harder question is whether, as a normative matter, the 
     committee ought to make Trump's returns public in the waning 
     weeks of the Democratic majority.
       On the one hand, Trump's tax filings should have seen the 
     light of day long ago. Trump should have released his returns 
     voluntarily--as every elected president since Richard Nixon 
     has. The Trump administration should have allowed the IRS to 
     hand the president's tax returns over to the House Ways and 
     Means Committee when that panel's chair, Rep. Richard Neal 
     (D-Mass.), requested those documents in April 2019. And the 
     federal judiciary shouldn't have allowed Trump to stall the 
     release of his returns for three and a half years through 
     litigation.
       On the other hand, the Ways and Means Committee has 
     maintained throughout the litigation over Trump's tax 
     returns--which culminated with last week's Supreme Court 
     decision--that it is seeking the documents as part of its 
     plan to review the IRS's presidential audit program. (The 
     presidential audit program is the procedure--mentioned in an 
     IRS manual but not codified in any statute or regulation--by 
     which the IRS examines individual tax returns filed by the 
     president and vice president each year.) Any review of the 
     presidential audit program that starts now and ends when the 
     GOP takes control of the House in January would be slapdash 
     and superficial. If Democrats on the House Ways and Means 
     Committee rushed to release Trump's returns in the lameduck 
     session--without conducting the comprehensive review of the 
     presidential audit program that they promised--it would look 
     like their stated motive for seeking the documents was 
     indeed, as Trump has alleged, pretextual.
       Fortunately, the Senate Finance Committee--which will 
     remain under Democratic leadership in the next Congress--has 
     both the resources and the apparent inclination to conduct 
     the comprehensive review of the presidential audit program 
     that House Democrats initially set out to undertake. So even 
     if the House Ways and Means Committee doesn't release Trump's 
     tax returns this month, the likely consequence is not that 
     Trump's returns will remain under wraps forever. The Senate 
     Finance Committee will be able to obtain the returns itself, 
     and that committee then can release return information that 
     is relevant to its review of the presidential audit program.

[[Page H9997]]

       Full disclosure: I've been advocating for the release of 
     President Trump's tax information since April 2017, when I 
     suggested in a Washington Post op-ed and a Yale Law Journal 
     Forum article that New York could enact a law requiring the 
     release of Trump's state tax filings. I've advised state 
     lawmakers in New York on strategies to make Trump's tax 
     returns public. I've criticized House Ways and Means Chairman 
     Neal for acting too slowly to obtain Trump's returns. So I'm 
     no apologist for Trump's tax secrecy.
       Still, it's important that Democrats on the House Ways and 
     Means Committee remain true to their word. Chairman Neal said 
     his committee needed Trump's tax returns to evaluate the 
     extent to which the IRS audits and enforces federal tax laws 
     against the president. To turn around now and release Trump's 
     returns--outside the context of a thorough evaluation of the 
     IRS's presidential audit program--would make the stated 
     rationale look much like a head fake. That would seem 
     especially gratuitous given that the Senate Finance Committee 
     stands ready, willing, and able to carry out its own review 
     of the presidential audit program.


The Easy Question: Can House Democrats Make Trump's Tax Returns Public?

       The law is clear that the House Ways and Means Committee 
     can now make Trump's tax returns public if a majority of the 
     committee members vote to do so.
       The relevant statute, Section 6103(f) of the Internal 
     Revenue Code, instructs the IRS to release otherwise-
     confidential tax returns or return information to three 
     congressional tax committees--the Senate Finance Committee, 
     the House Ways and Means Committee, and the Joint Committee 
     on Taxation--upon written request from the chair of any of 
     those panels. The statute also instructs the IRS to release 
     returns or return information to other congressional 
     committees under a narrower set of circumstances.
       The key language regarding the receiving committee's 
     confidentiality obligations lies in Section 6103(f)(4). That 
     paragraph says that any return or return information obtained 
     by the Senate Finance Committee, House Ways and Means 
     Committee, or Joint Committee on Taxation ``may be submitted 
     by the committee to the Senate or the House of 
     Representatives, or to both.'' It goes on to say that any 
     return or return information obtained by another committee 
     ``may be submitted by the committee to the Senate or the 
     House of Representatives, or to both, except that any return 
     or return information which can be associated with, or 
     otherwise identify, directly or indirectly, a particular 
     taxpayer, shall be furnished to the Senate or the House of 
     Representatives only when sitting in closed executive session 
     unless such taxpayer otherwise consents in writing to such 
     disclosure'' (emphasis added).
       Some textualist judges and justices are fond of the Latin 
     phrase ``expressio unius est exclusio alterius'': the 
     expression of one thing is the exclusion of the other. But 
     one doesn't need to be a textualist--or a classicist--to 
     recognize the importance of the contrast between the two 
     submission provisions. Absent the taxpayer's consent, other 
     committees can submit returns to the full Senate or House 
     ``only when sitting in closed executive session.'' The Senate 
     Finance Committee, House Ways and Means Committee, and Joint 
     Committee on Taxation can submit returns to the full Senate 
     or House without condition.
       Judge Trevor McFadden of the U.S. District Court for the 
     District of Columbia reached the same conclusion in his 
     December 2021 decision rejecting Trump's bid to block the IRS 
     from releasing his returns. ``It might not be right or wise 
     to publish the returns,'' McFadden wrote, but the House Ways 
     and Means Committee has the ``right to do so.'' And if the 
     House Ways and Means Committee exercises that right with 
     respect to Trump's returns, its action wouldn't be 
     unprecedented: In 2014, the House Ways and Means Committee 
     published return information regarding 51 taxpayers as part 
     of its investigation into allegations that the IRS had 
     discriminated against conservative nonprofit organizations 
     seeking tax exempt status.
       In the definitive scholarly treatment of Section 6103(f), 
     longtime University of Virginia law professor George Yin, who 
     served as chief of staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation 
     from 2003 to 2005, concludes that the choice to allow the 
     three tax committees to publish private tax information was a 
     ``conscious decision'' by Congress. Prior to 1976, Yin 
     explains, the president--along with the three congressional 
     tax committees--had statutory authority to make return 
     information public. A 1976 amendment eliminated the 
     president's authority to publicize return information but 
     preserved the power of the three tax committees. ``Congress 
     no doubt felt compelled in 1976 to preserve some outlet for 
     Congressional disclosures to the public,'' Yin writes, and it 
     ``was natural to give this authority to the tax committees.''
       On top of all this, the Speech and Debate Clause immunizes 
     lawmakers from liability for statements they make in 
     committee and on the House or Senate floor. So even if it 
     weren't for Section 6103(f)(4), a Ways and Means Committee 
     member could--without legal consequence--read Trump's tax 
     returns aloud, line by line, with the C-SPAN cameras rolling. 
     But House Democrats don't need to rely on constitutional 
     super-immunity here: The relevant statutory provisions 
     clearly empower the Ways and Means Committee to enter Trump's 
     tax returns into the public domain.


  The Hard Question: Should House Democrats Make Trump's Tax Returns 
                                Public?

       Before delving into the normative question of whether the 
     House Ways and Means Committee ought to publish Trump's tax 
     returns, let's clear three points out of the way.
       First, presidents ought to release their tax returns. 
     Disclosure of presidential tax returns helps to dispel the 
     pernicious notion that taxpaying is only for the ``little 
     people.'' Disclosure also helps voters and lawmakers evaluate 
     presidential conflicts of interest (for example, by revealing 
     whether presidents would benefit personally from their 
     administrations' tax proposals). Finally, disclosure serves 
     as a check on improper presidential influence over the IRS. 
     By virtue of their position at the apex of the executive 
     branch, presidents are the nation's tax enforcers-in-chief, 
     but they are also taxpayers against whom the federal tax laws 
     may be enforced. Disclosure helps to reduce the risk that 
     presidents will exploit their dual roles to their own 
     pecuniary advantage.
       Second, the Trump administration should have allowed the 
     IRS to release Trump's tax returns to the House Ways and 
     Means Committee when Chairman Neal requested those returns in 
     April 2019. Section 6103(f)'s instructions are clear: ``Upon 
     written request from the chairman of the Committee on Ways 
     and Means'' or the chair of the other congressional tax 
     panels, the treasury secretary (or the IRS commissioner as 
     the secretary's delegee) ``shall furnish such committee with 
     any return or return information specified in such request'' 
     (emphasis added). The statute makes no exception for cases in 
     which disclosure might embarrass the president. And while 
     case law suggests that the executive branch may reject an 
     information request from Congress if the request does not 
     further a ``legitimate task of Congress,'' Neal's April 2019 
     request manifestly stated a legitimate basis: so that his 
     committee could conduct oversight of the IRS's presidential 
     audit program and, if needed, consider legislative reforms 
     related to presidential audits.
       Third, the litigation over Neal's April 2019 request 
     shouldn't have dragged on for as long as it did. It was 
     nearly three and a half years ago--in July 2019--when the 
     House Ways and Means Committee first asked a D.C. federal 
     district court to order the IRS to hand over Trump's returns. 
     The lengthy delay in resolving that litigation meant that 
     Trump could effectively evade congressional oversight of the 
     presidential audit program for the duration of his term. 
     Fault for the delay lies at the feet of multiple people-and 
     Neal himself bears some culpability for waiting until April 
     2019 to submit his request and until July 2019 to file his 
     lawsuit rather than seeking the returns immediately after 
     Democrats took control of the House in January of that year. 
     However one allocates blame, though, it shouldn't take three 
     and a half years for the federal courts to confirm that the 
     word ``shall'' in Section 6103(f) really means ``shall.''
       But here we are in December 2022, and over the course of 
     the three-and-a-half-year fight over Trump's returns, Neal 
     and other members of the House Ways and Means Committee made 
     several statements that constrain their options now. In the 
     initial April 2019 letter requesting Trump's returns, Neal 
     said his committee needed the documents ``to determine the 
     scope'' of the IRS's audit of the president ``and whether it 
     includes a review of underlying business activities required 
     to be reported on the individual income tax return.'' As 
     recently as last month, the Ways and Means Committee told the 
     Supreme Court that its document request ``is well-tailored to 
     illuminating how the IRS conducted any audits of Mr. Trump 
     while he was President and whether reforms are needed to 
     enhance the IRS's ability to audit Presidents in the 
     future.'' Throughout the litigation, Neal and the House Ways 
     and Means Committee adamantly denied that ``the request is 
     driven by exposure solely for the sake of exposure'' (as 
     Trump had argued). In a June 2021 letter to Treasury 
     Secretary Janet Yellen and IRS Commissioner Charles Rettig, 
     Neal put it succinctly: ``There have been claims''--including 
     from Trump himself--``that the true and sole purpose of the 
     Committee's inquiry here is to expose President Trump's tax 
     returns. These claims are wrong.''
       Plainly, the House Ways and Means Committee is not going to 
     be able to carry out a thorough evaluation of the IRS 's 
     presidential audit program in the four and a half weeks 
     between now and the GOP takeover. The committee's document 
     request is extensive: It has asked for returns filed by Trump 
     and seven of his business entities from tax years 2015 
     through 2020, a status report for each audit, and 
     administrative files such as examiner workpapers associated 
     with each of the Trump returns. With competing demands for 
     the attention of committee members and staffers (including a 
     Dec. 16 deadline to avert a government shutdown), reviewing 
     those documents may consume the better part of the next four 
     and a half weeks. But even after the committee reviews all 
     those documents, it will still need more information before 
     it can complete the comprehensive assessment of the 
     presidential audit program that it has promised.
       For example, the committee will need to know how the IRS's 
     handling of items on Trump's tax returns compares to the 
     service's treatment of similar items on returns filed by 
     other high-net-worth business owners who weren't president of 
     the United

[[Page H9998]]

     States. If the IRS allowed Trump to claim an inflated 
     charitable contribution deduction for a conservation easement 
     at his golf course in Westchester County, New York, is that 
     because examiners gave special treatment to Trump, or is it 
     because the service generally lacks the resources to 
     challenge conservation easement appraisals? The committee 
     also will likely need to hear testimony from IRS examiners 
     involved in the presidential audit program. Did they 
     personally experience improper political influence? And the 
     committee will need to compare the audits of Trump's returns 
     to audits of other presidents and vice presidents. For 
     example, when Joe Biden became president, did the IRS go back 
     and review Biden's aggressive use of a self-employment tax 
     loophole to save hundreds of thousands of dollars on his and 
     his spouse Jill's 2017 and 2018 returns? While Biden--unlike 
     Trump--released his returns voluntarily, we don't know what 
     happened to those filings after they entered the IRS audit 
     vortex.
       To be sure, the House Ways and Means Committee could begin 
     its review of the presidential audit program now and then 
     release everything it has when the clock strikes noon on Jan. 
     3, like a test-taking student who drops her pencil mid-
     sentence when the proctor says ``time's up.'' Trump's tax 
     returns and additional information collected by the committee 
     would then enter the public domain, allowing journalists and 
     others to probe further. If Neal and the House Ways and Means 
     Committee had said all along that their purpose was to 
     vindicate the principle of presidential tax transparency 
     using the powers at their disposal under Section 6103(f), 
     perhaps that course of action would be justified. Indeed, 
     releasing Trump's tax returns for the sake of releasing 
     Trump's tax returns might not be such a bad thing--given all 
     the arguments for presidential tax transparency outlined 
     above.
       Yet Neal and the House Ways and Means Committee insisted 
     all along that their motive was not exposure for the sake of 
     exposure. That was a strategically wise thing to say for 
     litigation purposes, but the statement circumscribes what 
     they can (or, at least, should) do next. Neal and the House 
     Ways and Means Committee would undermine their own 
     credibility--and could be seen as hoodwinking the courts and 
     the public--if they proceeded to release the returns outside 
     the context of a comprehensive review of the presidential 
     audit program.


                       Can the Senate Take Over?

       Enter stage left: the Senate Finance Committee. While the 
     Republicans who take control of the House Ways and Means 
     Committee in January are exceedingly unlikely to continue the 
     Democrats' inquiry, the Senate Finance Committee under the 
     leadership of Chairman Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) is quite capable of 
     conducting the comprehensive review of the presidential audit 
     program that House Democrats won't be able to complete. Wyden 
     will have to send his own written request to the IRS for 
     Trump's returns, but this shouldn't be much more than a 
     formality: Wyden could send the request this morning, and the 
     IRS could send the documents back this afternoon. There is no 
     requirement that Wyden or the IRS even inform Trump of the 
     request before the IRS fulfills it. By the time Trump could 
     file a lawsuit to stop the IRS from complying, Wyden already 
     would have the documents in hand. In any event, a lawsuit by 
     Trump to stop the IRS from fulfilling Wyden's request would 
     be frivolous given the D.C. Circuit's decision resolving the 
     issue in the House litigation--and almost certainly would be 
     dismissed much more quickly than Trump's earlier bid to block 
     the House.
       Section 6103(f)(4) also allows Neal, as chair of the House 
     Ways and Means Committee, to appoint agents to examine the 
     returns that he has obtained through his request. In theory, 
     Neal could appoint Senate Finance Committee staffers--or 
     Chairman Wyden himself--as the House committee's agents. But 
     Neal's GOP successor as House Ways and Means chair could 
     revoke that appointment, ending the Senate's inquiry in 
     midstream. Thus, the better course of action is clearly for 
     Wyden to issue his own written request for the returns on the 
     Senate Finance Committee's behalf.
       In sum, even as the window closes for the House Ways and 
     Means Committee to conduct a comprehensive review of the 
     presidential audit program, Congress still can comb through 
     Trump's tax returns and determine whether the IRS fairly and 
     fully audited the former president. It would be in a 
     different chamber of Congress--the Senate, not the House--but 
     Trump would nonetheless be subject to legislative branch 
     scrutiny.
       Hopefully, House Democrats will recognize that deferring to 
     their Senate colleagues is preferable to reneging on their 
     own word and publishing Trump's returns outside the context 
     of the presidential audit program review that they promised. 
     If, instead, House Democrats release the returns now, Trump 
     and his supporters will charge Democrats with duplicity for 
     saying one thing in litigation and doing another thing 
     afterward--and the charge won't be entirely baseless. That 
     would, perversely, allow Trump to transform the matter of his 
     tax returns from a political vulnerability for him to a 
     potential liability for Democrats. And beyond questions of 
     political strategy, promise-keeping is--of course--an 
     important value in itself.
       So yes, presidents should release their tax returns, but 
     that doesn't release House Democrats from the avowals about 
     their motives that they have made since 2019. In their last 
     weeks in the majority, House Democrats have another 
     opportunity to demonstrate why they deserve the nation's 
     trust. They should seize it--even if that means those of us 
     who have been waiting for years to know what's buried in 
     Trump's tax returns might have to wait a little longer.

  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

                              {time}  1015

  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from 
Nevada (Mr. Horsford), who has been a leader on this issue and gave one 
of the most moving addresses as the caucus ensued.
  Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman, Mr. 
Neal, for yielding time and for leading this important legislation. I 
also thank him for the opportunity to serve on this important 
committee.
  I also thank the ranking member for always showing respect in our 
deliberations. All the best to you in your future deliberations.
  Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 9640, the Presidential 
Tax Filings and Audit Transparency Act of 2022.
  As the chair has said, since 1977, the IRS adopted a policy of 
conducting mandatory audits on the President while they are in office 
as a check on their power. Disturbingly, our committee found that the 
IRS had all but given up and ceased this program under the previous 
administration.
  As our colleagues on the other side of the aisle have chipped away at 
the funding for the IRS, their talent pool has shrunk. They have been 
unable to retain the kind of tax and financial experts that are 
actually needed to review the complex tax returns of some of the 
wealthiest.
  Meanwhile, those on the lower income spectrum, especially those with 
children who claim the earned income tax credit, are more likely to be 
audited. In fact, in reports from our committee, five times more likely 
to be audited are those individuals on the low-income spectrum than the 
most wealthy.
  The evidence is clear: Congress must step in. This is why this 
legislation must be passed.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``aye'' on this measure 
and to put the confidence of the American people in our tax system once 
again.
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I include in the Record an August 2, 2022, 
blog post from the Committee on Ways and Means titled: ``New Schumer-
Manchin Bill Will Supercharge Long History of IRS Abuses.''

 New Schumer-Manchin Bill Will Supercharge Long History of IRS Abuses, 
                            August 2, 2022.

       Despite a long history of IRS abuses, Democrats have 
     revived their proposal to send 87,000 new IRS agents after 
     you and your family-owned business on the belief that 
     everyone is a tax cheat. The IRS has already been targeting 
     lower and middle income earners, yet Democrats want to hire 
     new IRS agents to audit individuals and small businesses. 
     They've also promised to revive their invasive bank 
     surveillance scheme.


democrats want to increase audits for all individuals by more than 1.2 
                           million per year:

       A Senate Finance Committee analysis shows the $45.6 billion 
     for ``enforcement'' would ``predominantly hit taxpayers who 
     have low (or very low) Adjusted Gross Income. Nothing in the 
     proposal would change that fact.''
       Nearly half of the audits would hit Americans making 
     $75,000 per year or less.
       Low-income taxpayers making up to $25,000 per year would 
     see more audits too.
       Despite a clear need for greater taxpayer customer service 
     amidst a historic tax return backlog, only $3.2 billion of 
     Democrats' $80 billion is earmarked for that purpose.
       Supercharging the IRS will lay the groundwork for the 
     monitoring the Biden Administration has pledged to impose. 
     Top Biden officials have made clear they have not given up on 
     implementing IRS bank surveillance.


 Overly broad IRS targeting spanning decades has claimed many victims, 
                 and Democrats are trying to revive it.

       Former IRS official Lois Lerner apologized in 2013 that Tea 
     Party groups and other groups had been targeted for audits of 
     their applications for tax-exemption, which effectively 
     delayed that status until they could no longer take effective 
     part in the 2012 election. The Treasury Inspector General 
     found that ``Inappropriate Criteria Were Used to Identify 
     Tax-Exempt Applications for Review back in 2013.
       In 1998, the Waslington Post reported that ``An Oklahoma 
     tax-return preparer, a Texas

[[Page H9999]]

     oilman and a Virginia restaurateur told lawmakers how raiding 
     parties of armed agents from the IRS Criminal Investigation 
     Division barged into their homes or offices, frightened their 
     employees and families--and ultimately came up empty-
     handed.''
       ``Two of the men said they later found that former 
     employees had precipitated the raids, and that the IRS had 
     done little or no checking on their informants' credibility.
       The third witness said he never could determine why he was 
     targeted.''
       In 1997, CNN reported testimony from an expert that the IRS 
     was ``the best secret-keeping agency in our government today: 
     ``I discovered that the IRS does keep lists of American 
     citizens for no reason other than that their political 
     activities might have offended someone at the IRS; about how 
     the IRS believes that anyone who offers even legitimate 
     criticism of the tax collector is a tax protester; about how 
     the IRS shreds its paper trail, which means that there is no 
     history, no evidence and, ultimately, no accountability.''
       Robert Schriebman, a tax professor at the University of 
     Southern California and author of eight books critical of IRS 
     practices and procedures, decried the agency's ability to 
     ignore citizens' due-process protections. ``The IRS can take 
     a taxpayer's home by just the signature of the district 
     director alone,'' he said.
       These abuses led to numerous attempts at overhauling the 
     agency, and the latest still has not yet been implemented.


  Irs agents have wrongly seized millions from small businesses when 
                         given the opportunity

       In an apparent show of strength, past IRS actions led to 
     the seizure of more than $43 million from bank accounts of 
     hundreds of small businesses; the results of those actions in 
     a recent case led to local wedding dress shop being 
     permanently shut down.
       Only after intense pressure from Congress did the IRS 
     return the money that had been taken to some of the 
     businesses, including a Maryland dairy farmer.


IRS political leaks have been a problem whenever Democrats have been in 
                            the White House

       The last time President Biden was in the White House in 
     2011, Democrats pushed for billions more in enforcement 
     without providing clear, independent analysis supporting the 
     funding, relying on information provided by activist groups 
     aligned with their political objectives, and the IRS, which 
     stood to gain funding.
       Prior to the 2021 leak, ProPublica previously received (and 
     published) leaked taxpayer information from the IRS in 2012 
     that just so happened to include critics of the Democrat 
     administration.


   Political targeting By IRS threatens religious organizations and 
                             critics alike

       The IRS initially denied a Christian organization tax-
     exempt status because its emphasis on certain ``Bible 
     teachings are typically affiliated with the [Republican] 
     Party and candidates.''
       This is particularly concerning given the agency's prior 
     history of targeting tax exempt groups for additional 
     scrutiny based on their perceived political affiliation.
       Recently, Democrats in Congress asked the IRS to increase 
     scrutiny of groups seeking church status.


                  IRS mismanagement is well documented

       An audit of the IRS itself, conducted from FYs 2010-2012 
     and published in 2013 found ``inappropriate use of taxpayer 
     funds being spent on conferences and reviews selected 
     conferences to determine whether the conferences were 
     properly approved, and the expenditures were appropriated.''
       Another audit in 2019 found that the IRS wasted millions of 
     dollars on software licenses it purchased but never used due 
     to mismanagement of IT contracts and systems updates.
       Despite the Biden Administration's claim that more money 
     will increase IRS audits and increase revenue from wealthy 
     individuals and corporations, the Inspector General actually 
     found that after spending $22 million and 200 hours auditing 
     large businesses, the IRS was unsuccessful in bringing in 
     money to the Treasury from those audits nearly 50 percent of 
     the time.
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. Green), who has energetically spoken about this issue in the past 
and will, I am sure, in the future.
  Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, and still I rise. I rise today 
because I believe we have a duty, a responsibility, and an obligation 
to protect the great and noble American ideals that are the foundation 
of this country.
  We have a duty to protect what John Adams, the second President, 
brought to our attention, that we are a country of laws, not men, and 
what Teddy Roosevelt, the 26th President, brought to our attention, 
that no one is above the law.
  The President has awesome authority. The IRS is under the auspices of 
the executive branch. We must put in place laws to assure us that there 
are no conflicts of interest being perpetrated by a President who has 
control of the agency that is supposed to audit his taxes.
  We have a duty, a responsibility, and an obligation. I thank Mr. Neal 
for living up to the duty, the responsibility, and the obligation.
  I respect my friend on the other side from Texas. We disagree. I wish 
him the best. But we have to go on, and the country needs this 
legislation. I encourage my colleagues to support it.
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I include in the Record a 2017 House report 
where the chairman said: ``Committee Democrats remain steadfast in our 
pursuit to have [President Trump's] individual tax returns disclosed to 
the public,'' which can be found at: https://www.congress.gov/
congressional-report/115th-congress/house-report/73/1
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee), who has been outspoken on this issue, as well.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, it is good in this season to be 
surrounded by truth.
  Let me rise to support H.R. 9640, the Presidential Tax Filings and 
Audit Transparency Act of 2022, because this is a necessity.
  When the Committee on Ways and Means investigated the IRS' execution 
of its mandate to audit the taxes of a sitting President, they found 
that, during the Trump administration, the IRS has been in serious 
dereliction of its duty to audit the taxes of Donald Trump when he had 
been President. In fact, we have found and believe that at one time he 
paid zero.
  I don't want to necessarily focus on Donald Trump, but he happens to 
be at the core issue of the fact of: Are we an equal society? The 
Committee on Ways and Means has emphasized that we are.
  It leads us to the obvious questions of: Why? Did the IRS simply 
forget to do it? Did someone misplace his tax returns? Did the auditor 
of Presidential tax returns retire?
  I think this legislation is imperative because it must be a general 
perspective that transparency is for everyone.
  Let me be very clear: There are hardworking members of the IRS, 
hardworking members of that team.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentlewoman from Texas.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, we know and see them all the time.
  Madam Speaker, in addition to the dereliction regarding the audit of 
Donald Trump, we have heard that if you are a schoolteacher, you are 
audited.
  I want to say to the IRS Commissioner: You are derelict in your 
duties. You are derelict in your sensitivity to constituents, to calls 
from Members, and you are derelict in your duty as to what you are 
supposed to do as related to the President of the United States, not 
only because he was President but because he was an individual who 
continued to ignore the laws of the land.
  I said today was a day of truth in this holiday season. This 
legislation will bring truth and respect. Let's see those tax returns, 
and let the IRS do its job on behalf of the American people.
  Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 9640, the 
Presidential Tax Filings and Audit Transparency Act of 2022.
  This legislation arose by necessity. When the Ways and Means 
Committee investigated the IRS's execution of its mandate to audit the 
taxes of a sitting president, it found that, during the Trump 
administration, the IRS had been in serious dereliction of its duty to 
audit the taxes of Donald Trump when he had been president.
  This was especially troubling because, based on publicly known and 
commonly held information, Donald Trump's activities and investments 
presented a wide range of questionable and potentially problematic tax 
issues, to a far greater degree than any previous president.
  Donald Trump's taxes are the prototypical example of why the policy 
was established in the 1970s that required the IRS to audit the taxes 
of a sitting president.
  And yet, as the Ways and Means Committee found, it did not happen, 
either never being initiated or never being completed.
  It leads us to the obvious question: Why?
  Did the IRS simply forget to do it?
  Did someone misplace his tax returns?
  Did the auditor of presidential tax returns retire?
  While we don't know the exact answer, the IRS's failure to conduct 
its statutorily mandated audit of the president's taxes raises the 
possibility of a nefarious reason for the failure.

[[Page H10000]]

  Given the well-documented, extensive, and repeated malfeasance that 
was endemic to the presidency of Donald Trump--including all of the 
evidence presented during his two impeachment trials and his attempt to 
obstruct the effectuation of the 2020 election and subvert the 
Constitution, as exposed by the January 6th Select Committee--it is 
obvious that Trump had little or no interest in personally adhering to 
the law.
  Because of that, Congress would be naive to believe that the IRS's 
failure to audit Trump's taxes was merely an administerial error.
  Whether the failure was due to a specific instruction that was 
transmitted directly to the IRS leadership, or an implied directive 
that was recognized, or possibly some other means of observing or 
conveying Trump's wishes, it would be foolish to ignore the possibility 
that a president who flouted the law with impunity on so many occasions 
had instead, in total contrast, insisted on strict adherence to the law 
in connection to the audit of his personal taxes, and that his views 
played no part in the failure of the IRS to audit his taxes.
  This obvious observation is accentuated by Trump's public statements 
displaying his antipathy to paying his fair share of federal taxes. 
Perhaps most resoundingly, during a 2016 debate, he said that, by 
paying nothing in federal taxes over a series of years, ``That makes me 
smart.''
  All of this pertinent background underscores the obvious basis for 
the legislation that we are now considering: Congress must ensure that 
the failure by the IRS to audit a sitting president's taxes Never 
Happens Again.
  This bill codifies the requirement that the IRS conduct and complete 
an audit of the sitting president's taxes each year, and publicly 
disclose certain information about its findings.
  The bill also requires the IRS to audit any additional filing by a 
former president that relates to a year in which he or she had been in 
office.
  Since it is the responsibility of Congress to ensure that the tax 
code is administered fairly for every American, it is especially 
important that Congress apply that to the most powerful American at any 
given time: the president of the United States.
  Fairness requires even-handed application of the law to everyone, 
including those with the most influence over our governmental 
institutions.
  Failure to adhere to this precept would subordinate public confidence 
in our democracy the whims of the person who presides over the entire 
executive branch of our government.
  Failure to abide by fairness in the enforcement of our tax code would 
negate fairness as a fundamental American principle.
  Failure to apply the tax code to the president in an even-handed 
manner, just like it applies to other Americans, would assert 
acquiescence of justice and the rule of law to Machiavellian, 
autocratic, narcissistic personal interests and personal power.
  That may be how things work in countries run by monarchs, but that's 
not how the United States works.
  In fact, it is antithetical every stroke of the quill that composed 
our Constitution.
  Madam Speaker, I strongly support this legislation because it is 
necessary and appropriate, and it effectuates bedrock American 
principles.
  I urge all my colleagues to vote YES on this bill to empower the IRS 
to do its job--free of fear or favor--and remind every future president 
that he or she is subordinate to the Constitution and the rule of law, 
just like every other person in our country.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to address their 
remarks to the Chair and not to a perceived viewing audience.
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Madam Speaker, I would note that, every year, President Trump's tax 
returns were under audit and that the tradition of making Presidential 
tax returns public is just that, a tradition, not a law, and unrelated 
to the Presidential audit program.
  I would also note that while I have loved serving with my colleagues 
from Houston, I would note that they were among the very first Members 
of Congress to introduce impeachment resolutions against this President 
in the very first year of his Presidency, revealing that this is 
political targeting and nothing else.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Before I finish my time here, I do thank Kevin Brady. We had an 
excellent relationship at the committee. I can speak for all the 
Democrats on the committee that they had high regard for Kevin Brady 
when he was in the majority and when he was in the minority for the way 
he allowed the minority, us at the time, to use the time that was 
allocated to us. I never thought during that time that Mr. Brady did 
anything that was mean or malicious.
  In addition, I think what is important to point out here, as he did 
in his comments, is that we did big things during that time. When you 
stop and consider the CARES Act, when you consider what we did in the 
health space, retirement and savings, what we were able to do with 
USMCA, all of that was done in a bipartisan manner. I think part of it 
is a reflection of his personality, which fundamentally lacks malice.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Madam Speaker, I include in the Record an October 2018 article, 4 
years ago, from the San Francisco Chronicle, where the Honorable Nancy 
Pelosi said to expect Democrats to immediately try to force President 
Trump to release his tax returns if they take back the House in 
November, exposing the true purpose of this effort.

             [From the Bloomberg Government, Oct. 11, 2018]

 SF Chronicle: Pelosi: Trump's Tax Returns are Fair Game if Democrats 
                               Win House

                          (By John Wildermuth)

       Expect Democrats to immediately try to force President 
     Trump to release his tax returns if they take back the House 
     in November, Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said Wednesday.
       Demanding the president's tax returns ``is one of the first 
     things we'd do--that's the easiest thing in the world. That's 
     nothing,'' Pelosi told The Chronicle's editorial board in an 
     hour-long interview.
       Although a 1924 provision of the Internal Revenue Code 
     gives certain congressional committees the right to request--
     and release--the tax records of even the president, it's 
     unlikely Trump would surrender those documents without an 
     all-out legal battle. He has refused to release his returns 
     since he announced he was running for president, arguing 
     first that he was being audited and later that voters don't 
     care.
       The GOP-led Congress has joined in keeping those records 
     private, regularly voting down Democratic efforts to make 
     Trump turn them over.
       Forcing Trump to release his returns would not necessarily 
     make them public, but would allow a Democratic-run 
     congressional committee to decide whether there is 
     information in those returns that needs to be investigated.
       Whether that happens hinges on Democrats winning the House 
     or the Senate. With the Nov. 6 election less than four weeks 
     away, Pelosi sounded confident about both the House 
     Democrats' chances and her own political future.
       ``I believe we would win if the election was today,'' she 
     said. And although more than 50 Democratic candidates have 
     said they wouldn't vote for Pelosi to lead the House, the San 
     Francisco Democrat said, ``I believe I will be speaker if we 
     win.''
       Releasing the president's tax returns to a congressional 
     committee would not be revenge for the way Trump and GOP 
     leaders have treated the Democratic minority for the past two 
     years, but a simple matter of oversight by Congress, ``a co-
     equal body of government,'' Pelosi said.
       ``We have to have the truth,'' she said.
       Payback isn't going to be part of a Democratic-led House, 
     Pelosi promised, pushing back against what she called the 
     ``pound of flesh crowd'' of Democrats eager to repay 
     Republicans for every political slight and attack since Trump 
     was elected.
       ``We will seek bipartisanship where we can,'' Pelosi said. 
     ``One of the reasons we should win is that we're not like 
     them, and we're not going to be like them.''
       The Democratic leader also says she doesn't have much 
     choice. No matter what happens on election day, Trump is 
     still going to be president and she will have to work with 
     him.
       ``We need to get a signature, which requires some 
     bipartisanship, some common ground,'' Pelosi said, which she 
     admitted wasn't always easy.
       ``I, probably more than most people do, respect the office 
     he serves in, probably more than he does,'' she said. ``But 
     he is the president--we have to find our common ground. . . . 
     We want to get results for the American people.''
       But that's going to mean discussions and compromise, not 
     surrender, Pelosi said. Democrats ``will never negotiate away 
     our values,'' she said.
       Pelosi is confident there are areas where Democrats can 
     reach agreement with Trump and Republicans, as they did when 
     Republican George W. Bush was president.
       Despite disputes over the Iraq War and other issues, ``we 
     worked together, we disagree and we agreed, and that's the 
     marketplace of ideas that we live in,'' she said.
       Areas where there could be common ground include national 
     infrastructure improvements, a plan for Dreamers, 
     undocumented residents who arrived in this country

[[Page H10001]]

     as minors, and ways to curb gun violence, Pelosi said.
       There's also public support for efforts to allow the 
     Department of Health and Human Services to negotiate for 
     lower drug prices, she added.
       Pelosi also weighed in on some local issues, saying she 
     supported San Francisco's efforts to establish a safe 
     injection site for drug users, something Gov. Jerry Brown 
     vetoed last month. She also backed changes in federal 
     marijuana laws, although she admitted, ``I don't see this 
     president signing any such thing.''
       But those concerns are far from the top of the Democrats' 
     ``to-do'' list if they take back the House. ``The first order 
     of business is the economic security of America's working 
     families--that is what people care about,'' Pelosi said.
       For Pelosi, that concern connects directly with San 
     Francisco's Proposition C, which would tax large companies to 
     raise an estimated $300 million a year for homeless programs.
       Pelosi said she supports the measure because it's something 
     the city needs to do. She acknowledged the opposition from 
     her political ally Mayor London Breed, who has said that 
     before the city pours millions of dollars more into homeless 
     programs, ``San Franciscans deserve accountability for the 
     money they are already paying.''
       ``I don't disagree with the mayor that there should be 
     accountability and there should be a plan'' about how to use 
     the funds, Pelosi said. ``I have great confidence in the 
     mayor that she can handle it if Prop. C wins.''
       Efforts to deal with social problems like homelessness, 
     hunger and housing insecurity require a new vision from 
     Congress, she said.
       ``We have to think in a different way about it, and when we 
     think big, we have to put our hands in the pockets where the 
     money is,'' Pelosi said.
       Homelessness ``is not an issue, it's a value. It's an ethic 
     that we have not properly addressed.''
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Madam Speaker, Nancy Pelosi is not alone. Democrat after Democrat on 
this committee and in this Congress made it clear years ago that they 
were targeting President Trump to try to force his tax returns to be 
made public, even though the law doesn't require it at all and, as was 
revealed in our committee hearing, it has nothing to do with the 
Presidential audits.
  In fact, in our markup, again and again, we heard from Members who 
said we must force these private tax returns to be made public so we 
can see his dealings, so we can see his taxes, so we can criticize. 
Nothing to do with the Presidential audit process.
  That is our concern today, that under the new standard that has been 
set, and the Supreme Court has affirmed, two individuals in Congress, 
the chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means and the chairman of 
Senate Finance Committee, will have nearly unlimited power, with almost 
any excuse, to obtain, to investigate, and to make public those very 
private tax returns.
  We are not alone in our concerns. Other scholars have made the point 
that we have a voluntary tax system and that if Americans don't believe 
and can't trust that their tax returns won't be kept private, if they 
have to worry that if they end up on the enemy's list in Congress, that 
they, too, can be a target. Under this new process and this new 
standard, the privacy protections of the last half a century are gone.
  My worry, and I think the worry of every Republican here, and I hope 
some of our Democrat friends, as well, is that this will provide a 
dangerous new political weapon that invites political retribution where 
that cycle will continue and our politics will be worse, harsher, 
uglier, and more divisive because of this action.
  Again, at the end of the day, whether a President makes their tax 
returns public or not, today it is not the law. While I would recommend 
it for all, the truth of the matter is, at the end of the day, this is 
political targeting. It can be applied not just to the President but to 
every American.
  I am worried that it is not just public officials at risk. It is 
private citizens. It could be supporters. It could be business or labor 
leaders. It could be the Supreme Court that someone seeks to 
delegitimize. That is our concern here.
  This is why we are fighting this fight as Republicans, to protect the 
privacy of every American, to make sure they are not targeted by 
partisans in Congress.
  I will tell you, I am very worried that every chairman of those two 
committees will face incredible pressure to target Americans, political 
enemies, and opponents, and I don't think we should ever go down that 
road. Regrettably, we are, and that is why we are here.
  I have respected Chairman Neal for many years and treasure our 
working relationship and the accomplishments we have done. I will miss 
you, friend.
  Before we conclude today, I want to say a special thank-you to 
several members of the Committee on Ways and Means Republican staff who 
have worked so hard on this issue for years: Sean Clerget, Derek 
Theurer, Caroline Jones, Molly Fromm, Brittany Havens, Paige Decker, 
J.P. Freire, and, of course, the remarkable staff director of the 
Committee on Ways and Means Republicans, Gary Andres. He has done a 
great job for this committee and this country.
  Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time for 
closing.
  The constant theme that we have heard today from our Republican 
colleagues is that this is about targeting an individual. This is a 
chance to clarify the law that they suggest is currently in a 
convoluted stage, which means that there is, in their judgment, 
sufficient confusion about the law as to whether or not the process 
should play out.
  What this legislation argues, I think, with great proficiency is the 
following, and that is that we should codify the system that we have 
discovered in recent days is not only dysfunctional but is nonexistent.
  Nine out of the last 10 Presidents of the United States have 
voluntarily released their tax forms. It dates to Richard Nixon in a 
letter to the then-chairman of this committee, Wilbur Mills.
  Barack Obama and Joe Biden have both indicated they have been fully 
audited. What we are suggesting today is that this is an opportunity to 
clear up the question of how the mandatory audit that is highlighted in 
regulations at the IRS plays out.
  By the way, when we say it is not in law, this institution here 
functions on the basis of rules as well as law. The rules in the IRS 
manual said that the audit ought to take place. We have discovered that 
not only did the audit not take place but it hasn't even been 
completed.
  A reminder: This is not about a President. This is about the 
Presidency going forward.

                              {time}  1030

  This was not done with malicious intent. It was not done in a 
clandestine manner. It was this chance to say, okay, if there is a 
legitimate argument about how the mandatory audit system plays out, 
let's straighten it out this morning. Easily done and accomplished. 
Paying taxes is a core responsibility, a reflection of our faith in 
common citizenship.
  Despite the idea that we talk about a voluntary system, treasure the 
idea that about 87 percent of the American people pay their taxes on 
time. That really speaks, I think, to the intent and sincerity that 
they feel about a functioning government. All of us are expected to 
fulfill that responsibility.
  In exchange for voluntary compliance, we have to be assured that a 
fair and well-functioning system ensures that everyone else is 
cooperating, too. This shouldn't be the kind of country that allows 
those with power and privilege to be held above the law that applies to 
everyone else. That is not part of our national character. That is not 
our ethic as a people.
  Here, no one, no matter how powerful, should be out of the reach of 
the tax system, least of all not in compliance with our tax laws.
  The IRS failed its own policy to audit a President in an affront to 
our shared sense of justice and fairness. Everybody on this occasion 
acknowledges that, the audit did not take place. And no audit has been 
completed 3 years later.
  The legislation before us, H.R. 9640, rectifies the situation. It 
offers great clarity.
  Madam Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this 
legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I was the first member who advocated for 
reviewing and releasing Donald Trump's tax returns. I've been on this 
quest for nearly 6 years.
  I applaud Chairman Neal for fighting until the very end. This was not 
about 1 man. The law was always on our side.

[[Page H10002]]

  Our committee investigation makes crystal clear why Trump and his 
cronies obstructed our work. Trump's handpicked Treasury Secretary and 
IRS head were at best derelict. At worst they were corrupt and 
criminal.
  Trump paid a pittance in taxes for years. He overinflated losses to 
shirk his duty as an American citizen.
  Trump's government failed to conduct a mandatory review of his tax 
records. They broke the law.
  We provided the IRS with funds to prevent tax cheats from abusing our 
tax code. Now, we must ensure the IRS cannot meddle with the audit 
process and presidential returns are made public.
  Americans must have faith that our tax system is fair. No one is 
above the law. It is time to act.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 1529, the 
previous question is ordered on the bill.
  The question is on the engrossment and third reading of the bill.
  The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was 
read the third time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on passage of the bill.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this question will be postponed.

                          ____________________


[House Hearing, 117 Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



                 HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

=======================================================================
                                HEARING

                               BEFORE THE

                          SELECT COMMITTEE TO
                      INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH
                             ATTACK ON THE
                         UNITED STATES CAPITOL

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               ----------                              

                             JUNE 13, 2022

                               ----------                              

                            Serial No. 117-3

                               ----------                              

Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
                6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                                     

[GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
                                     

        Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov
        
                               __________

                    U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE                    
48-999 PDF                WASHINGTON : 2022                     
          
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------           

 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE UNITED 
                             STATES CAPITOL

               Bennie G. Thompson, Mississippi, Chairman
                    Liz Cheney, Wyoming, Vice Chair
                        Zoe Lofgren, California
                       Adam B. Schiff, California
                        Pete Aguilar, California
                      Stephanie N. Murphy, Florida
                         Jamie Raskin, Maryland
                       Elaine G. Luria, Virginia
                        Adam Kinzinger, Illinois
                            
                            COMMITTEE STAFF

                    David B. Buckley, Staff Director
      Kristin L. Amerling, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
             Timothy J. Heaphy, Chief Investigative Counsel
                  Hope Goins, Counsel to the Chairman
                      Jamie Fleet, Senior Advisor
          Joseph B. Maher, Senior Counselor to the Vice Chair
               Timothy R. Mulvey, Communications Director
           Candyce Phoenix, Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor

Katherine B. Abrams, Staff           Thomas E. Joscelyn, Senior 
    Associate                            Professional Staff Member
Temidayo Aganga-Williams, Senior     Rebecca L. Knooihuizen, Financial 
    Investigative Counsel                Investigator
Alejandra Apecechea, Investigative   Casey E. Lucier, Investigative 
    Counsel                              Counsel
Lisa A. Bianco, Director of Member   Damon M. Marx, Professional Staff 
    Services and Security Manager        Member
Jerome P. Bjelopera, Investigator    Evan B. Mauldin, Chief Clerk
Bryan Bonner, Investigative Counsel  Yonatan L. Moskowitz, Senior 
Richard R. Bruno, Senior                 Counsel
    Administrative Assistant         Hannah G. Muldavin, Deputy 
Marcus Childress, Investigative          Communications Director
    Counsel                          Jonathan D. Murray, Professional 
John Marcus Clark, Security              Staff Member
    Director                         Jacob A. Nelson, Professional 
Jacqueline N. Colvett, Digital           Staff Member
    Director                         Elizabeth Obrand, Staff Associate
Heather I. Connelly, Professional    Raymond O'Mara, Director of 
    Staff Member                         External Affairs
Meghan E. Conroy, Investigator       Elyes Ouechtati, Technology 
Heather L. Crowell, Printer              Partner
    Proofreader                      Robin M. Peguero, Investigative 
William C. Danvers, Senior               Counsel
    Researcher                       Sandeep A. Prasanna, Investigative 
Soumyalatha O. Dayananda, Senior         Counsel
    Investigative Counsel            Barry Pump, Parliamentarian
Stephen W. DeVine, Senior Counsel    Sean M. Quinn, Investigative 
Lawrence J. Eagleburger,                 Counsel
    Professional Staff Member        Brittany M. J. Record, Senior 
Kevin S. Elliker, Investigative          Counsel
    Counsel                          Joshua D. Roselman, Investigative 
Margaret E. Emamzadeh, Staff             Counsel
    Associate                        James N. Sasso, Investigative 
Sadallah A. Farah, Professional          Counsel
    Staff Member                     Grant H. Saunders, Professional 
Daniel A. George, Senior                 Staff Member
    Investigative Counsel            Samantha O. Stiles, Chief 
Jacob H. Glick, Investigative            Administrative Officer
    Counsel                          Sean P. Tonolli, Senior 
Aaron S. Greene, Clerk                   Investigative Counsel
Marc S. Harris, Senior               David A. Weinberg, Senior 
    Investigative Counsel                Professional Staff Member
Alice K. Hayes, Clerk                Amanda S. Wick, Senior 
Quincy T. Henderson, Staff               Investigative Counsel
    Assistant                        Darrin L. Williams, Jr., Staff 
Camisha L. Johnson, Professional         Assistant
    Staff Member                     John F. Wood, Senior Investigative 
                                         Counsel
                                     Zachary S. Wood, Clerk
                       
                       CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS

                             Rawaa Alobaidi
                             Melinda Arons
                              Steve Baker
                            Elizabeth Bisbee
                              David Canady
                             John Coughlin
                             Aaron Dietzen
                              Gina Ferrise
                           Angel Goldsborough
                             James Goldston
                              Polly Grube
                          L. Christine Healey
                             Danny Holladay
                              Percy Howard
                              Dean Jackson
                           Stephanie J. Jones
                              Hyatt Mamoun
                               Mary Marsh
                               Todd Mason
                              Ryan Mayers
                              Jeff McBride
                               Fred Muram
                             Alex Newhouse
                              John Norton
                             Orlando Pinder
                               Owen Pratt
                              Dan Pryzgoda
                              Brian Sasser
                            William Scherer
                              Driss Sekkat
                              Chris Stuart
                            Preston Sullivan
                              Brian Young

                           Innovative Driven
                            
                            C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page

                               STATEMENTS

The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee 
  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
  Capitol........................................................     1
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to 
  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol     2
The Honorable Zoe Lofgren, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California............................................     4

                               WITNESSES
                                Panel I

Mr. Chris Stirewalt, Former Fox News Political Editor............     7

                                Panel II

Mr. Byung Jin ``BJay'' Pak, Former U.S. Attorney for the Northern 
  District of Georgia............................................    19
Mr. Al Schmidt, Former City Commissioner of Philadelphia.........    21
Mr. Benjamin Ginsberg, Election Attorney.........................    22

                                APPENDIX

Prepared Statement of Byung Jin ``BJay'' Pak, Former U.S. 
  Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia..................    29
The Honorable Zoe Lofgren, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California:
  Joint Statement of Elections Infrastructure Government 
    Coordinating Council & The Election Infrastructure Sector 
    Coordinating Executive Committees............................    32
  Report by the Michigan Senate Oversight Committee..............    33
  Joint Expert Report............................................    87
  Statement of Janai Nelson, President and Director-Counsel, 
    NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc................    89
  Statement of Trevor Potter, Founder and President, Campaign 
    Legal Center.................................................   112
  Statement of Wendy R. Weiser, Vice President for Democracy, 
    Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law..............   134
  Joint Statement of States United Democracy Center..............   148
  Joint Statement of Renee DiResta, Technical Research Manager, 
    Stanford Internet Observator, Stanford University and Kate 
    Starbird, PhD, Associate Professor, Human-Centered Design & 
    Engineering, and Co-Founder and Director, Center for an 
    Informed Public, University of Washington....................   173

 
                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

                              ----------                              


                         Monday, June 13, 2022

                     U.S. House of Representatives,
 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
                                 the United States Capitol,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:46 a.m., in 
room 390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson 
[Chairman of the Committee] presiding.
    Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger.
    Chairman Thompson. The Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in 
order.
    Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the 
Committee in recess at any point.
    Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 10, the 
Chair announces the Committee's approval to release the 
deposition material presented during today's hearing.
    Good morning.
    Last week, the Select Committee laid out a preview of our 
initial findings about the conspiracy overseen and directed by 
Donald Trump to overturn the results of the 2020 Presidential 
election and block the transfer of power--a scheme 
unprecedented in American history.
    My colleagues and I don't want to spend time talking about 
ourselves during these hearings, but as someone who has run for 
office a few times, I can tell you, at the end of a campaign, 
it all comes down to the numbers. The numbers tell you the 
winner and the loser.
    For the most part, the numbers don't lie. But if something 
doesn't add up with the numbers, you go to court to get 
resolution. That is the end of the line. We accept those 
results. That is what it means to respect the rule of law. That 
is what it means to seek elective office in our democracy.
    Because those numbers aren't just numbers. They are votes. 
They are your votes. They are the will and the voice of the 
people. The very least we should expect from any person seeking 
a position of public trust is the acceptance of the will of the 
people--win or lose.
    Donald Trump didn't. He didn't have the numbers. He went to 
court. He still didn't have the numbers. He lost.
    But he betrayed the trust of the American people. He 
ignored the will of the voters. He lied to his supporters and 
the country. He tried to remain in office after the people had 
voted him out and the courts upheld the will of the people.
    This morning, we'll tell the story of how Donald Trump lost 
an election--and knew he lost an election--and as a result of 
his loss decided to wage an attack on our democracy, an attack 
on the American people, by trying to rob you of your voice in 
our democracy, and, in doing so, lit the fuse that led to the 
horrific violence of January 6th, when a mob of his supporters 
stormed the Capitol, sent by Donald Trump, to stop the transfer 
of power.
    Today, my colleague from California, Ms. Lofgren, and our 
witnesses will detail the Select Committee's findings on these 
matters.
    But, first, I will recognize our distinguished Vice Chair, 
Ms. Cheney of Wyoming, for any opening statement she would care 
to offer.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Last week, as the Chairman noted, our Committee began 
outlining a 7-part plan--overseen by President Trump--to 
overturn the 2020 election.
    Today, we will begin looking at the initial part of that 
plan: President Trump's effort to convince millions of 
Americans that the election was stolen from him by overwhelming 
fraud.
    A Federal court has already reviewed elements of the 
Committee's evidence on this point, and said this: ``In the 
months following the election, numerous credible sources--from 
the President's inner circle to agency leadership and 
statisticians--informed President Trump and Dr. Eastman that 
there was no evidence of election fraud,'' sufficient to 
overturn the 2020 Presidential election.
    The court's opinion methodically documents each of the 
principal reasons for that conclusion, and I would urge all 
those watching to read it.
    Today, we will begin to show the American people some of 
our evidence. Today, you will hear much more from former 
Attorney General Bill Barr's recorded testimony, and you will 
hear in greater detail what others in the Department told 
President Trump: that his claims of election fraud were 
nonsense.
    You will also hear much more from President Trump's own 
campaign experts, who had also concluded that his fraud claims 
could not be supported.
    Let me focus briefly on just three points now.
    First, you will hear first-hand testimony that the 
President's campaign advisors urged him to await the counting 
of votes and not to declare victory on election night. The 
President understood, even before the election, that many more 
Biden voters had voted by mail, because President Trump ignored 
the advice of his campaign experts and told his supporters only 
to vote in person.
    Donald Trump knew before the election that the counting of 
those mail-in ballots in several States would not begin until 
late in the day and would not be complete for multiple days. 
This was expected, reported, and widely known.
    You will also hear testimony that President Trump rejected 
the advice of his campaign experts on election night and, 
instead, followed the course recommended by an apparently 
inebriated Rudy Giuliani to just claim he won and insist that 
the vote counting stop, to falsely claim everything was 
fraudulent.
    He falsely told the American people that the election was 
not legitimate, in his words, ``a major fraud.'' Millions of 
Americans believed him.
    Second, pay attention to what Donald Trump and his legal 
team said repeatedly about Dominion voting machines--far-flung 
conspiracies with a deceased Venezuelan Communist allegedly 
pulling the strings. This was, ``complete nonsense,'' as Bill 
Barr said.
    President Trump's own campaign advisors, his Department of 
Justice, and his cybersecurity experts all told him the same 
thing.
    Here, for example, is White House lawyer Eric Herschmann. 
His view was shared by many of the Trump team whom we 
interviewed.

    Mr. Herschmann. I thought the Dominion stuff was--I never saw any 
evidence whatsoever to sustain those allegations.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Third, as Mike Pence's staff started to 
get a sense for what Donald Trump had planned for January 6th, 
they called the campaign experts to give them a briefing on 
election fraud and all of the other election claims.
    On January 2nd, the general counsel of the Trump campaign, 
Matthew Morgan--this is the campaign's chief lawyer--summarized 
what the campaign had concluded weeks earlier: That none of the 
arguments about fraud or anything else could actually change 
the outcome of the election.

    Mr. Morgan. Generally discussed on that topic was whether the 
fraud, maladministration, abuse, or irregularities, if aggregated and 
read most favorably to the campaign, would that be outcome 
determinative. And I think everyone's assessment in the room, at least 
amongst the staff, Marc Short, myself, and Greg Jacob, was that it was 
not sufficient to be outcome determinative.

    Vice Chair Cheney. As is obvious, this was before the 
attack on the Capitol. The Trump campaign legal team knew there 
was no legitimate argument--fraud, irregularities, or 
anything--to overturn the election. Yet, President Trump went 
ahead with his plans for January 6th anyways.
    Mr. Chairman, hundreds of our countrymen have faced 
criminal charges--many are serving criminal sentences--because 
they believed what Donald Trump said about the election and 
they acted on it. They came to Washington, DC, at his request. 
They marched on the Capitol at his request. Hundreds of them 
besieged and invaded the building at the heart of our 
constitutional Republic.
    As one conservative editorial board put it recently, ``Mr. 
Trump betrayed his supporters by conning them on January 6th, 
and he is still doing it.''
    Another conservative editorial board that has long 
supported President Trump said last week, Donald Trump, ``won't 
stop insisting that 2020 was stolen, even though he has offered 
no proof that that is true.''
    And this. Donald Trump now, ``clings to more fantastical 
theories, such as Dinesh D'Souza's debunked `2000 Mules,' even 
as recounts in Arizona, Georgia, and Wisconsin confirm Trump 
lost.''
    Those are the correct conclusions to draw from the evidence 
gathered by this Committee. We have much more evidence to show 
the American people on this point than we can reasonably show 
in one hearing. But, today, we will begin.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, the Chair recognizes 
the gentlewoman from California, Ms. Lofgren, for an opening 
statement.
    Ms. Lofgren. Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    In our opening hearing, we gave an overview of our 
investigation into the January 6th attack. The plot to 
overthrow the election was complex and had many parts, which 
we'll explore in remaining hearings. But, today, we examine the 
false narrative that the 2020 election was ``stolen.''
    Former President Trump's plan to overturn the election 
relied on a sustained effort to deceive millions of Americans 
with knowingly false claims of election fraud. All elements of 
the plot relied on convincing his supporters about these false 
claims.
    Today, we'll demonstrate the 2020 election was not stolen. 
The American people elected President Joe Biden. We'll present 
evidence that Mr. Trump's claims of election fraud were false, 
that he and his closest advisors knew those claims were false, 
but they continued to peddle them anyway, right up until the 
moments before a mob of Trump supporters attacked the Capitol.
    We'll also show that the Trump campaign used these false 
claims of election fraud to raise hundreds of millions of 
dollars from supporters who were told their donations were for 
the legal fight in the courts. But the Trump campaign didn't 
use the money for that. The Big Lie was also a Big Rip-Off.
    The former President laid the groundwork for these false 
claims well in advance of the election. As early as April 2020, 
Mr. Trump claimed that the only way he could lose an election 
would be as a result of fraud.

    President Trump. You know the things with bundling and all of the 
things that are happening with votes by mail where thousands of votes 
are gathered. And I'm not going to say which party does it, but 
thousands of votes are gathered, and they come in and they're dumped in 
a location. And then all of a sudden, you lose elections that you think 
you're going to win.
    President Trump. The only way we're going to lose this election is 
if the election is rigged. Remember that. It's the only way we're going 
to lose this election.
    President Trump. This is going to be a fraud like you've never 
seen. Did you see what's going on? Take a look at West Virginia. 
Mailmen selling the ballots. They're being sold. They're being dumped 
in rivers. This is a horrible thing for our country.
    Then-Candidate Biden. There is no----
    President Trump. This is not----
    Then-Candidate Biden. There is no evidence of that.
    President Trump. This is not going to end well.

    Ms. Lofgren. Mr. Trump decided even before the election 
that, regardless of the facts and the truth, if he lost the 
election, he would claim it was rigged.
    Mr. Trump was right about one thing: It did not end well. 
On election night, Mr. Trump claimed, even before the votes 
were counted, that his loss was a result of fraud.
    Now, Thursday, we had testimony from Attorney General Barr 
about the Department of Justice investigation of Mr. Trump's 
fraud claims. Barr told Trump directly that his claims were 
``BS.'' Yet, after hearing the truth and that warning from the 
AG, Mr. Trump continued to peddle the false claims of fraud.
    You will hear detailed testimony from Attorney General Barr 
describing the various election fraud claims the Department of 
Justice investigated. He will tell you how he told Mr. Trump 
repeatedly that there was no merit to those claims. Mr. Barr 
will tell us that Mr. Trump's election night claims of fraud 
were made without regard to the truth and before it was even 
possible to look for evidence of fraud.
    Attorney General Barr wasn't alone. You will see and hear 
today other Department of Justice officials and senior advisors 
to Mr. Trump that they told him the claims he was making were 
not supported by evidence.
    The election fraud claims were false. Mr. Trump's closest 
advisors knew it. Mr. Trump knew it. That didn't stop him from 
pushing the false claims and urging his supporters to ``fight 
like hell'' to ``take back their country.''
    After he lost the election, various legal challenges were 
made. You will hear testimony today from a renowned Republican 
election litigation lawyer who will explain the normal process 
by which candidates challenge an election.
    Rather than accept the results of the election and the 
decisions of the courts, Mr. Trump pursued a different 
strategy: He tried to convince the American people the election 
had been stolen. Many of his supporters believed him, and many 
still believe him today.
    The attack on January 6th was a direct and predictable 
result of Mr. Trump's decision to use false claims of election 
fraud to overturn the election and to cling to power.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you very much.
    I now welcome our first witness.
    We are joined today by former Fox News Politics Editor 
Chris Stirewalt.
    Bill Stepien, President Trump's former campaign manager, 
was subpoenaed to be here and was in Washington this morning 
prepared to testify.
    Kevin Marino, Mr. Stepien's attorney, is here with us 
today--thank you, Mr. Marino, for coming--and he has advised us 
that Mr. Stepien's wife went into labor this morning. Mr. 
Stepien unexpectedly had to travel to be with his wife, and we 
wish him the best.
    Due to the depth and rigor of our investigation, we have 
several hours of Mr. Stepien's testimony from when we 
interviewed him in February, and we will be presenting that 
testimony today.
    I'll now swear in our witness.
    The witness will please stand and raise his right hand.
    [Witness sworn.]
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you. Please be seated.
    Let the record reflect the witness answered in the 
affirmative.
    I now recognize myself for questions.
    I want to start by showing a video that tells the story of 
what was going on in the Trump White House on election night in 
November 2020.

    Mr. Heaphy. Do you remember where you were on the night of the 
election November the 3rd?
    Ms. Trump. I was at the White House.
    Mr. Heaphy. Do you know where, specifically, over the course of 
that night you spent your time within the White House?
    Ms. Trump. There was an event that was organized in the residence. 
So, I moved between the residence, a room sort-of off the residence 
where some family members were.
    Mr. Heaphy. I take it, the President was upstairs in the residence?
    Mr. Kushner. He was upstairs. I was--we were kind-of on the first 
floor, so not upstairs we were with--mostly with Ivanka and her 
brothers and a couple other people who'd be coming in and out.
    Mr. George. Can you just describe the atmosphere? What were people 
expecting that night when you got to the White House?
    Mr. Miller. I think that there was--typically, for people who show 
up there on election night it's going to be a self-select more positive 
environment. I think people were a little bit nervous not knowing what 
was going to happen with the red wave or the red mirage as the debate 
was being carried out.
    Fox News Anchor Bret Baier. The Fox News decision desk is calling 
Arizona for Joe Biden. That is a big get for the Biden campaign.
    Mr. George. Arizona is called. Do you remember that?
    Mr. Stepien. I do.
    Mr. George. What do you remember happening where you were when 
Arizona was called?
    Mr. Stepien. I--there was surprise at the call.
    Mr. George. Who was surprised?
    Mr. Stepien. Most--most everyone in the room.
    Mr. George. Were--you being one of them?
    Mr. Stepien. Yes.
    Mr. George. Did that shift the atmosphere or the attitude in the 
White House?
    Mr. Miller. Completely.
    Mr. George. How so? Can you describe that?
    Mr. Miller. Because Fox News was the first one to go out and say 
that.
    Mr. George. And so was it anger kind-of directed toward Fox News 
for making a call more so than a disappointment that maybe the campaign 
lost Arizona?
    Mr. Miller. All of the above.
    Mr. George. So both? Anger and disappointment?
    Mr. Miller. Both disappointed with Fox and concerned that maybe our 
data or our numbers weren't accurate.
    Mr. Harris. Were you in the White House residence during the sort-
of past midnight into the early morning hours of November 4th?
    Mr. Giuliani. Yes, I'm sure it--it went over beyond midnight. Yes.
    Mr. George. Do you remember Rudy Giuliani being at the White House 
on election night and into the early hours the next morning?
    Mr. Stepien. I do.
    Mr. George. What do you remember about when he came?
    Mr. Stepien. He--he was--there were--I had heard that he was 
upstairs, you know, in that aforementioned reception area. And he was 
looking to talk to the President. And it was suggested instead that 
he'd come talk to several of us down off the Map Room.
    Mr. George. You said that Mr.--you had heard that Mr. Giuliani 
wanted to talk to the President and then he was directed your way. Did 
you end up talking to Mr. Giuliani when he was directed your way?
    Mr. Stepien. I did. I did.
    Mr. George. What was that conversation?
    Mr. Stepien. A lot of conversations were directed my way. A few of 
us, myself, Jason Miller, Justin Clark, Mark Meadows, gathered in a 
room off the Map Room to--to listen to whatever Rudy presumably wanted 
to say to the President.
    Mr. Heaphy. Was there anyone in that conversation who in your 
observation had had too much to drink?
    Mr. Miller. Like--Mayor Giuliani.
    Mr. Heaphy. Tell me more about that. What was your observation 
about his potential intoxication during that--that discussion about 
what the President should say when he addressed the Nation on election 
night?
    Mr. Miller. And the mayor was definitely intoxicated, but I do not 
know his level of intoxication when he spoke with the President, for 
example.
    Mr. Harris. Were you part of any discussions with the people I 
mentioned, Mr. Stepien, Mr. Meadows, or anyone else about whether the 
President should make any sort of speech on election night?
    Mr. Giuliani. I mean, I spoke to the President. They may have been 
present, but the President--spoke to the President several times that 
night.
    Mr. Miller. There were suggestions by, I believe it was Mayor 
Giuliani, to go and declare victory and say that we won it outright.
    Mr. Stepien. It was far too early to be making any calls like that. 
Ballots--ballots were still being counted. Ballots were still going to 
be counted for days. And it was far too early to be making any 
proclamation like that.
    Mr. Miller. I remember saying that I--to the best of my memory, and 
I was saying that we should not go and declare victory until we had a 
better sense of the numbers.
    Mr. George. Okay. Can you be more specific about that conversation? 
In particular, what Mayor Giuliani said, your response, and then 
anybody else in the room's response.
    Mr. Miller. I think effectively, Mayor Giuliani was saying we won 
it. They're stealing it from us. Where'd all the votes come from? We 
need to go say that we won. And essentially that anyone who didn't 
agree with that position was being weak.
    Mr. Heaphy. What was your view at the time as to what he should or 
shouldn't say?
    Ms. Trump. I don't know that I had a firm view as to what he should 
say in that circumstance. The results were still being counted. It was 
becoming clear that the race would not be called on election night.
    Mr. Stepien. My belief, my recommendation was to say that votes are 
still being counted. It's too early to--to tell. Too early to call the 
race. But, you know, we are proud of the race we--we run--we ran and, 
you know, we think--we think we're in a--in good position. And we'll 
have more to say about this, you know, the next day or the next day 
whenever we had something to say.
    Mr. George. And did anybody who is a part of that conversation 
disagree with your message?
    Mr. Stepien. Yes.
    Mr. George. Who is that?
    Mr. Stepien. The President disagreed with that. I don't recall the 
particular words. He thought I was wrong. He told me so. And, you know, 
that they were going to, you know, go in it--he was going--to go in a 
different direction.
    President Trump. This is a fraud on the American public. This is an 
embarrassment to our country. We were getting ready to win this 
election. Frankly, we did win this election. We did win this election. 
[applause]

    Chairman Thompson. Mr. Stirewalt, did President Trump have 
any basis to declare victory on November 4, 2020?
    Mr. Stirewalt. No, none at all.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you.
    Mr. Stepien also testified that President Trump had no 
basis for declaring victory at that point in time.

    Mr. Stepien. My belief, my recommendation was to say that votes are 
still being counted. It's too early to--to tell. Too early to call the 
race. But, you know, we are proud of the race we--we run--we ran and, 
you know, we think--we think we're in a--in good position. And we'll 
have more to say about this, you know, the next day or the next day 
whenever we had something to say.

    Chairman Thompson. Thank you.
    Mr. Stirewalt, after the votes were counted, who won the 
Presidential election of 2020?
    Mr. Stirewalt. Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr., of the great 
State of Delaware.
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you.
    That is the bottom line. We have had an election. Mr. Trump 
lost. But he refused to accept the results of the democratic 
process.
    Pursuant to section 5(c)(8) of House Resolution 503, I now 
recognize the gentlewoman from California, Ms. Lofgren, for 
questions.
    Ms. Lofgren. Well, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Stirewalt, I would like you to explain a term that was 
thrown around a lot during the election, and that is the so-
called ``red mirage.'' What does that mean?
    Mr. Stirewalt. So, in the 40 or 50 years, let's say, that 
Americans have increasingly chosen to vote by mail or early or 
absentee, Democrats prefer that method of voting more than 
Republicans do. So, basically, in every election Republicans 
win election day and Democrats win the early vote.
    Then you wait and start counting, and it depends on which 
ones you count first, but usually it is election day votes that 
get counted first and you see the Republicans shoot ahead. Then 
the process of baling and binding and unbinding all those mail-
in votes. Some States, like Pennsylvania, refused to count the 
votes first. So, you have to wait for all of that to come in.
    So, in every election, and certainly a National election, 
you expect to see the Republican with a lead, but it's not 
really a lead.
    When you put together a jigsaw puzzle, it doesn't matter 
which piece you put in first. It ends up with the same image. 
So, for us, who cares? But that's because no candidate had ever 
tried to avail themself of this quirk in the election counting 
system.
    We had gone to pains--and I'm proud of the pains we went 
to--to make sure that we were informing viewers that this was 
going to happen, because the Trump campaign and the President 
had made it clear that they were going to try to exploit this 
anomaly. We knew it was going to be bigger because the 
percentage of early votes was higher, right? We went from about 
45 percent of the votes being early and absentee to, because of 
the pandemic, that increased by about 50 percent.
    So, we knew it would be longer. We knew it would be more. 
So, we wanted to keep telling viewers: Hey, look, the number 
that you see here is sort of irrelevant, because it's only a 
small percentage of these votes.
    Ms. Lofgren. So, this red mirage, that's really what you 
expected to happen on election night?
    Mr. Stirewalt. Happens every time.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you, Mr. Stirewalt.
    Now, I'd like to play a clip of Attorney General Bill Barr, 
who also explains what was expected to happen on election 
night.

    Attorney General Barr. Right out of the box on election night, the 
President claimed that there was major fraud underway. I mean, this 
happened as far as I could tell before there was actually any potential 
of looking at evidence . . . 
    It seemed to be based on the dynamic that--that at the end of the 
evening, a lot of Democratic votes came in which changed the vote 
counts in certain States.
    That seemed to be the basis for this broad claim that there was 
major fraud. And I didn't think much of that because people had been 
talking for weeks and everyone understood for weeks that that was going 
to be what happened on election night.

    Ms. Lofgren. Mr. Stepien obviously could not be with us 
today, and it's proper for him to be with his wife as they 
welcome their child. But he also had discussions with the 
President about the red mirage--that is, that it would be a 
long night and that early votes would favor him, but lots more 
votes would be counted over the course of the night and the 
days after.
    So, let's play clip 1 from our interview with Mr. Stepien.

    Mr. Stepien. I--I recounted back to that conversation with 
him in which I said--just like I said in 2016, it was going to 
be a long night. I--I told him in 2020 that, you know, there 
were--it was going to be a--a process again. As, you know, the 
early returns are going to be, you know, positive. Then we're 
gonna, you know, be watching the returns of--of ballots as, you 
know, they rolled in thereafter.
    Mr. George. Is it fair to say you're trying to present a--
a--what you thought would be a realistic picture of what might 
happen over the course of that night, being election night?
    Mr. Stepien. That night and the days that followed. Yeah. 
I--I--I always--I always, you know, I always told the President 
the truth. And, you know I--I, you know, I think he expected 
that from me. And I told him it was going to be a process. It 
was going to be, you know--you know, we're gonna have to wait 
and see how this turned out. So I--I--just like I did in 2016, 
I did the same thing in 2020.

    Ms. Lofgren. So, let's watch a short clip of President 
Trump speaking after he received that information from his 
campaign advisors.

    President Trump. We want all voting to stop. We don't want 
them to find any ballots at 4 o'clock in the morning and add 
them to the list.

    Ms. Lofgren. So, when former President Trump said that, it 
contradicted what his advisors had warned would happen. We all 
know that mail-in ballots played an important role in the 2020 
election. However, President Trump continuously discouraged 
mail-in voting.
    Mr. Stepien was so concerned about the President's position 
on mail-in voting that, in the summer of 2020, he met with 
President Trump, along with House Minority Leader Kevin 
McCarthy.
    Let's play clip 4.

    Mr. Stepien. Meeting that was had in particular, I invited 
Kevin McCarthy to join the meeting. He being of like mind on 
the issue with me in which we made our case for--for why we 
believed mail-in balloting--mail-in voting not to be a bad 
thing for his campaign. But, you know, the--the President's 
mind was made up and you understand, you know, how many times 
to, you know, go to the well on a particular topic.
    Mr. Heaphy. Yeah, I understand. Tell me a little bit more 
about the argument that you and Mr. McCarthy made to the 
President in that meeting as to why it wasn't a bad thing that 
mail-in voting was available.
    Mr. Stepien. Largely two pillars to that argument, both of 
which I've previously mentioned. One, you know, leaving a good 
deal to chance. Pushing or urging your voters to vote only on 
election day leaves a lot to chance. That's--that's A. And B, 
also previously mentioned, the fact that the Trump campaign, 
the Republican National Committee, the Republican Party had an 
advantage of--of grassroots workers and volunteers on the 
ground that would allow, you know, an--an advantage to enhance 
return rates of--of ballots that were mailed.
    Those were the two pillars of the argument.
    Mr. Heaphy. I see. And what, if anything, do you recall 
Representative McCarthy saying during that meeting?
    Mr. Stepien. We were--we were echoing the same argument. I 
mean, his--his words echoed--echoed mine and vice versa on 
those--on those two topics.

    Ms. Lofgren. Mr. Stirewalt, you were at the decision desk 
at Fox News on election night, and you called Arizona early for 
President Biden, which was controversial.
    How did you make that call? Where did you think the race 
stood in the early hours of the next day?
    Mr. Stirewalt. Well, it was really controversial to our 
competitors, who we beat so badly by making the correct call 
first. Our decision desk was the best in the business, and I 
was very proud to be a part of it.
    Because we had partnered with the Associated Press and the 
National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago, 
thanks to my colleague and friend Arnon Mishkin, we had built a 
wonderful device for forecasting the outcomes of election.
    So, we had a different set of data than our competitors 
did. We had more research, and we had a better system, and we 
had a great team.
    So, what you're waiting to see is, do the actual votes 
match up with the expectations in the poll? The real votes are 
testing the quality of your poll in targeted precincts and in 
targeted places.
    Let me tell you, our poll in Arizona was beautiful, and it 
was doing just what we wanted it to do, and it was cooking up 
just right.
    At some point--and I forget exactly who--but, at some 
point, it became clear that Arizona was getting ready to make a 
call.
    So we, around, you know, my boss, Bill Sammon, said, 
``We're not making any call until everybody says yes,'' because 
that was always our policy, unanimity.
    You have to understand, in this room you have, you know, 
the best--people from academia, Democrats, Republicans, a broad 
cross-section of people who had worked together for a decade, 
who were really serious about this stuff.
    So, we knew it would be a consequential call, because it 
was one of five States that really mattered, right? Wisconsin, 
Michigan, Pennsylvania, Georgia, Arizona were the ones that we 
were watching. We knew it would be significant to call any one 
of those five. But we already knew Trump's chances were very 
small and getting smaller based on what we had seen.
    So, we were able to make the call early. We were able to 
beat the competition. We looked around the room. Everybody 
says, ``yea,'' and on we go.
    By the time we found out how much everybody was freaking 
out and losing their minds over this call, we were already 
trying to call the next State. We had already moved on. We were 
to Georgia. We were to North Carolina. We were looking at these 
other States.
    So, we thought it was--we were pleased, but not surprised.
    Ms. Lofgren. I see. You know, after the election, as of 
November 7th, in your judgment, what were the chances of 
President Trump winning the election?
    Mr. Stirewalt. After that point?
    Ms. Lofgren. Yes.
    Mr. Stirewalt. None. I mean, I guess you could--it's always 
possible that you could have, you know, a truckload of ballots 
be found somewhere, I suppose. But, once you get into this 
space, you know, ahead of today, I thought about what are the 
largest margins that could ever be overturned by a recount in 
the normal kind of--the kind of stuff that we heard Mike Pence 
talking about, sounding like a normal Republican that night, 
when he said, you know, we'll keep every challenge.
    Nothing like that. In a recount, you're talking about 
hundreds of votes. When we think about calling a race, one of 
the things that we would think about is, is it outside the 
margin of a recount?
    When we think about that margin, we think about, in modern 
history, you're talking about 1,000 votes, 1,500 votes at the 
way, way outside. Normally, you're talking about hundreds of 
votes, maybe 300 votes that are going to change.
    So, the idea that, through any normal process in any of 
these States--remember, he had to do it thrice, right? He 
needed three of these States to change. In order to do that, I 
mean, you're at an infinite--you're better off to play the 
Powerball than to have that come in.
    Ms. Lofgren. On November 7th, the other major news outlets 
called the race for President Biden. Now, Mr. Stepien told the 
Committee that he thought the odds were--and this is a quote--
``very, very, very bleak,'' and held a meeting with the 
President that same day.
    Let's show video clip 8.

    Mr. Stepien. With each day that wore on, I mean the--the 
trajectory of the race, you know, on election night Trump ahead 
in--in many States. And as--as that week wore on as the third 
became the fourth became the fifth and so on and so forth, and 
the vote-by-mail ballots were tabulated, you know, Trump's--
Trump's lead, you know, grew more narrow.
    And--and in--and in some places Biden surpassed, you know, 
Trump in--in the vote totals. So as--as the week wore on, as we 
paid attention to those numbers every single--multiple times a 
day, you know, internally, you know, I--I was feeling less 
confident for sure.
    Mr. George. What was your view on the state of the election 
at that point?
    Mr. Stepien. You know, very, very, very bleak. You know, 
I--I--I--we--we told him, you know, the group that went over 
there outlined, you know, my belief in--in--in chances for 
success at this point. And then we pegged that at, you know, 5 
maybe--maybe 10 percent based on recounts that were--that--
that, you know, either were automatically initiated or--or--or 
could be--could be initiated based on, you know, realistic 
legal challenges, not all the legal challenges that eventually 
were pursued. But, you know, it was, you know, my belief is 
that it was a very, very--I mean, 5 to 10 percent is not a very 
good optimistic outlook.

    Ms. Lofgren. Now, as President Trump and others continued 
to claim that the election was stolen, there were lawyers who 
were a part of the campaign, campaign lawyers, who were 
responsible for investigating the fraud claims.
    That includes Alex Cannon, who could not validate the 
claims that were being made, including those being made by the 
President.
    Let's roll video 13.

    Mr. George. This is an email. It's two emails actually. The 
first is from Alex Cannon to you and Faith McPherson, and then 
you forward that email on to Mark Meadows, Justin Clark, and 
Jason Miller, the subject being AZ Federal ID voters. If you 
look at the original email there it says, ``Bill, we completed 
the AZ analysis you requested.'' I assume that's about Arizona.
    And because of the un--the substantial uncertainty 
surrounding the databases, this is a highly unreliable way to 
identify ineligible voters. Can you explain the task that you 
gave to Mr. Cannon for this Arizona analysis?
    Mr. Stepien. Sure. Previously, I described some of my 
frustration with some of the--the claims that people would 
throw at President Trump regarding, you know, you know, you 
need to look at this. You know, this happened in this State or 
that happened in that State. And it would be, you know--those 
would flow to us to--to--to look into.
    I--I talked about that before I think.
    Mr. George. Yep.
    Mr. Stepien. You know, this is an example of that. I 
recall--I recall in Arizona someone had thrown out, I believe 
this to be the claim, that there were thousands of illegal 
citizens, people not eligible to vote, having cast their 
ballots in Arizona. Someone had thrown out that claim to 
President Trump. And with, you know, the margins being as close 
as they were as previously described, you know, that could 
potentially matter.
    So, this--this wild claim is thrown out, which, you know, 
on its face didn't seem, you know, realistic or possible to me. 
I asked Alex to look at the--you know, the--the claim. And I--I 
haven't read his full email, but I recall that the response to 
that, the reality of that was not illegal citizens voting in 
the election, I think it was like overseas voters voting in the 
election. I--I--so, obviously, you know, people who were 
eligible to vote.

    Ms. Lofgren. When these findings were passed up the chain 
to President Trump, he became frustrated, and he replaced the 
campaign's legal team.
    Let's play clip 14.

    Mr. Stepien. You know, I think the President, it was during the 
second week where things like you displayed were occurring, where he 
was, you know, growing increasingly unhappy with, you know, his team, 
you know, me less so because I was less involved at this point, but 
still me; growing increasingly unhappy with Justin Clark. And that--
that kind-of, you know--you know, paved the way for, you know, Justin 
to be moved out and Mayor Giuliani be moved in as the person in charge 
of, you know, the legal side of the campaign and, for all intents and 
purposes, the campaign at that point.

    Ms. Lofgren. Now, when Mr. Stepien became campaign manager, 
he was the second Trump campaign manager for the 2020 race, and 
there were only about 115 days until election day.
    So, let's play the video.

    Mr. Stepien. I inherited a campaign that was--the day I was hired 
was, I believe, President Trump's low point in the 2020 daily average 
polling against President Biden. It was--it was a campaign at a low 
point in the polls. It was structurally and fiscally deficient. You 
know, I--you know, there was a great deal wrong with the campaign in--
in--in both of those--in--in both of those areas. So, most of my day 
was spent fixing what--and I think I took over with 115 days left in 
the campaign. Most of my time was spent fixing the things that could be 
fixed with 115 days left in the campaign.

    Ms. Lofgren. Now, Mr. Stepien has been in the campaign 
field for a long time, and he worked for lots of different 
candidates and campaigns. He testified to this Committee about 
his concerns given the claims that Mr. Giuliani and Ms. Powell 
and their team were making publicly.
    Let's play clip 15.

    Mr. Heaphy. Okay. And it was important for you, Mr. Stepien, to 
sort-of pull back just for your own professional reputation. You didn't 
want to be associated with some of what you were hearing from the 
Giuliani team and others that--that sort-of stepped in in the wake of 
your departure.
    Mr. Stepien. I didn't mind being categorized. There were two groups 
of them. We called them kind-of my team and Rudy's team. I--I didn't 
mind being characterized as being part of Team Normal, as--as 
reporters, you know, kind-of started to do around that point in time. 
You know, I said, you know, hours ago, early on, that, you know, I've--
I've been doing this for a long time, 25 years, and I've spanned, you 
know, political ideologies from Trump to McCain to Bush to Christie, 
you know.
    And, you know, I can work under a lot of circumstances for a lot of 
varied, you know, candidates and politicians. But a situation where--
and I think along the way I've built up a pretty good--I hope a good 
reputation for being honest and--and professional, and I--I didn't 
think what was happening was necessarily honest or professional at that 
point in time. So, again, that led to me stepping away.

    Ms. Lofgren. So, the President did get rid of ``Team 
Normal,'' and I'd like to play a clip showing that the 
President found the people he needed to perpetuate his claims 
of fraud.

    Mr. Giuliani. They saw a big truck bringing in 100,000 ballots in 
garbage cans, in wastepaper baskets, in cardboard boxes, and in 
shopping baskets. And every single one of them was for Biden . . . 
    Because they were being notified by Smartmatic in Frankfurt that 
Biden was way behind, and they better come up with a lot more ballots. 
And we can prove every single thing I just said . . . 
    If you gave me the paper ballots, I could probably turn around each 
one of these States. I'm absolutely convinced if you--if you let me 
examine each one of those ballots, I'd pull out enough that were 
fraudulent that it would shake the hell out of the country.
    Ms. Powell. It can set and run an algorithm, that probably ran all 
over the country, to take a certain percentage of votes from President 
Trump and flip them to President Biden, which we might never have 
uncovered had the votes for President Trump not been so overwhelming in 
so many of these States that it broke the algorithm . . . 
    I remember that one of the things Mark said at some point was, 
``You can't show an actual vote was flipped,'' which I found at the 
time to be a remarkable assertion, because--because you don't have to 
have the gun to see the body lying on the floor bleeding out with five 
bullet holes in it was killed by a gun.
    Mr. Herschmann. What they were proposing I thought was nuts. You 
know, the theory was also completely nuts, right? I mean, it was a 
combination of Italians and Germans. I mean, different things have been 
floating around as to who was involved. I remember Hugo Chavez and the 
Venezuelans. She has an affidavit from somebody who says they wrote a 
software in--and something with the Philippines, just all over the 
radar.
    Mr. Heaphy. Did you ever share, Mr. Kushner, your view of Mr. 
Giuliani? Did you ever share your perspective about him with the 
President?
    Mr. Kushner. I guess--yes.
    Mr. Heaphy. Tell me what you said.
    Mr. Kushner. Well, basically not the approach I would take if I was 
you.
    Mr. Heaphy. Okay. And--and how did he react? How did President 
Trump react when you shared that view with him?
    Mr. Kushner. Oh, he said, you know, I--I have confidence in Rudy.
    Mr. Morgan. I think I had conversations with probably all of our 
counsel who were signed up to assist on election day as they disengaged 
with the campaign . . . 
    The general consensus was that the law firms were not comfortable 
making the arguments that Rudy Giuliani was making publicly . . . 
    I seem to recall that I had a similar conversation with most all of 
them.
    Attorney General Barr. I made it clear I did not agree with the 
idea of saying the election was stolen and putting out this stuff, 
which I told the President was bullshit. And, you know, I didn't want 
to be a part of it. And that's one of the reasons that went into me 
deciding to leave when I did.

    Ms. Lofgren. Even Sidney Powell, defending herself in a 
defamation lawsuit brought by Dominion Voting Systems, argued 
that, ``No reasonable person would conclude that her statements 
were truly statements of fact.''
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. I thank the witness for joining us 
today.
    The first panel is now dismissed.
    Without objection, the Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from California, Ms. Lofgren.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Last week, we presented the testimony of former Attorney 
General Bill Barr, who testified before this Committee.
    Today, we present additional evidence, including his 
testimony that former President Trump started making claims of 
election fraud immediately after the election and that Barr 
concluded the claims were untrue.
    Now, due to the length of Attorney General Barr's 
testimony, we're only going to include relevant portions at the 
hearing today.
    So, let's play the video.

    Attorney General Barr. The Department, in fact, when we received 
specific and credible allegations of fraud, made an effort to look into 
these to satisfy ourselves that they were without merit . . . 
    And--and I was in the posture of trying to figure out--there was an 
avalanche of all these allegations of fraud that built up over a number 
of days, and it was like playing Whac-A-Mole because something would 
come out one day and then the next day it would be another issue . . . 
    Also, I was influenced by the fact that all the early claims that I 
understood on--were--were completely bogus and silly and usually based 
on complete misinformation. And so, I--I didn't consider the quality of 
claims right out of the box to give me any, you know, feeling that 
there was really substance here.

    Ms. Lofgren. For the first time since the election, the 
Attorney General spoke personally with the President on 
November 23rd, and this was at the White House.
    Let's play the video, please.

    Attorney General Barr. So, on November 23rd, I--I hadn't spoken to 
the President since the election, and, in fact, as I said, since the 
middle of October roughly. It was a little--getting awkward because 
obviously he had lost the election, and I hadn't said anything to him. 
And so, Cipollone said, ``You know, I think it's time you come over 
here.''
    And so, I came over to meet with the President in the Oval Office. 
And--and Meadows were--and Cipollone were there. And the President--
and--and this is leading up to this conversation with Kushner. The 
President said there had been major fraud and that, as soon as the 
facts were out, the results of the election would be reversed.
    And he went on--on this for quite a while, as he is prone to do. 
And then he got to something that I was expecting, which is to say that 
apparently the Department of Justice doesn't think that it has a role 
of looking into these fraud claims . . . 
    And I said, you know, that has to be the campaign that raises that 
with the State. The Department doesn't take sides in elections, and the 
Department is not an extension of--of your legal team. And our role is 
to investigate fraud. And if--and we'll look at something if it's--if 
it's specific, credible, and could have affected the outcome of the 
election. And--and we're doing that, and it's just not--they're not--
they're just not meritorious. They're not pan--panning out . . . 
    And as I walked out of the Oval Office, Jared was there with Dan 
Scavino, who ran his--ran the President's social media and who I 
thought was a reasonable guy and believe is a reasonable guy. And I 
said, how long is--how long is he going to carry on with this stolen 
election stuff? Where is this going to go?
    And by that time, Meadows had caught up with me and--leaving the 
office, and caught up to me and--and said that--he said, ``Look, I--I 
think that he's becoming more realistic and knows that there's a limit 
to how far he can take this.'' And then Jared said, ``You know, yeah, 
we're working on this. We're working on it.''

    Ms. Lofgren. Even after his Attorney General told him his 
claims of election fraud were false, President Trump continued 
to promote these claims.

    Attorney General Barr. I felt that things continued to deteriorate 
between the 23rd and the weekend of the 29th . . . 
    And then on November 29th, he appeared on Maria Bartiromo's show, 
``Sunday Futures,'' I believe it was. And he said that the Department 
was missing in action . . . 
    President Trump. Well, no, we had glitches where they moved 
thousands of votes from my account to Biden's account, and these are 
glitches. So, they're not glitches. They're theft. They're fraud, 
absolute fraud . . . 
    This election was over, and then they did dumps. They call them 
dumps--big, massive dumps in Michigan, in Pennsylvania, and all over . 
. . 
    How the FBI and Department of Justice--I don't know, maybe they're 
involved, but how people are allowed to get away from this stuff--with 
this stuff is unbelievable.

    Ms. Lofgren. Now, spurred by what he saw, Barr told the 
Associated Press on December 1st that there was no evidence of 
election fraud. Immediately after Attorney General Barr's 
statement went public, Mr. Trump berated and he nearly fired 
Barr. But Barr persisted in telling the President that there 
was no evidence to support the fraud claims.

    Attorney General Barr. This got under my skin, but I also felt it 
was time for me to say something. So on--I had--so I set up a lunch 
with the AP reporter, Mike Balsamo, and I told him at lunch--I made the 
statement that ``to date, we have not seen fraud on a scale that could 
have effected a different outcome in the election.''
    I had a later meeting scheduled at the White House at 3 o'clock 
with Meadows. This was previously scheduled. So, I knew this was gonna 
to come up. And I went over there, and I told my secretary that I 
thought I would probably be fired and told not to--to go home 
[laughter]--I mean, not to go back to my office, so I said you might 
have to pack up for me.
    And so, when I got over there, I met with the chief of staff. He 
said the President was angry. He didn't really go--get into the issue 
of the fraud. And then I went up to Pat Cipollone's office, and we were 
talking with each other. And word came down that he wanted us both to 
go to the Oval . . . 
    And the President was as mad as I've ever seen him, and he was 
trying to control himself . . . 
    And the President said, ``Well, this is, you know, killing me. You 
didn't have to say this. You must have said this because you hate 
Trump. You hate Trump.'' . . . 
    Then he raised the--the big vote dump, as he called it, in Detroit. 
And that, you know, he said people saw boxes coming in to the counting 
station at all hours of the morning and so forth. And I explained to 
him that I--at that point, I knew the exact number of precincts for 
Detroit. I think it was 630-something. I said, Mr. President, there are 
630 precincts in Detroit. And unlike elsewhere in the State, they 
centralize the counting process. So, they're not counted in each 
precinct, they're moved to counting stations.
    And so, a normal process would involve boxes coming in at all 
different hours, so there's nothing--and I said, did anyone point out 
to you--did all the people complaining about it point out to you, you 
actually did better in Detroit than you did--you did last time? I mean, 
there's no indication of fraud in Detroit . . . 
    And I told him that the stuff that his people were shoveling out to 
the public were bull--was bullshit. I mean, that the claims of fraud 
were bullshit. And, you know, he was indignant about that. And I 
reiterated that they've wasted a whole month on these claims--on the 
Dominion voting machines, and they were idiotic claims . . . 
    And I specifically raised the Dominion voting machines, which I 
found to be among the most disturbing allegations. Disturbing in the 
sense that I saw absolutely zero basis for the allegations. But they 
were made in such a sensational way that they obviously were 
influencing a lot of people--members of the public--that there was this 
systemic corruption in the system and that their votes didn't count and 
that these machines controlled by somebody else were actually 
determining it, which was complete nonsense.
    And it was being laid out there. And I told them that it was--it 
was crazy stuff, and they were wasting their time on that. And it was 
doing a great, grave disservice to the country.

    Ms. Lofgren. Okay. So, the very next day, the President 
released a video rehashing some of the very same claims that 
his chief law enforcement officer had told him were, 
``nonsense.''

    President Trump. Here's an example. This is Michigan. At 6:31 in 
the morning, a vote dump of 149,772 votes came in unexpectedly. We were 
winning by a lot. That batch was received in horror . . . 
    We have a company that's very suspect. Its name is Dominion. With 
the turn of a dial or the change of a chip, you can press a button for 
Trump and the vote goes to Biden. What kind of a system is this?

    Ms. Lofgren. Barr again told the President that there was 
nothing to these claims on December 14th.

    Attorney General Barr. When I walked in, sat down, he went off on a 
monologue saying that there was now definitive evidence involving fraud 
through the Dominion machines, and a report had been prepared by a very 
reputable cybersecurity firm, which he identified as Allied Security 
Operations Group. And he held up the report and he had--and then he 
asked that a copy of it be made for me. And while a copy was being 
made, he said, ``You know, this is absolute proof that the Dominion 
machines were rigged. The report means that I am going to have a second 
term.''
    And then he gave me a copy of the report. And as he talked more and 
more about it, I sat there flipping through the poor report and looking 
through it. And to be frank, it looked very amateurish to me . . . 
didn't have the credentials of the people involved . . . but I didn't 
see any real qualifications. And the statements were made very 
conclusory like this--these machines were designed to, you know, engage 
in fraud or something to that effect, but I didn't see any supporting 
information for it . . . 
    And I was somewhat demoralized because I thought, boy, if he really 
believes this stuff he has, you know, lost contact with--with--he's 
become detached from reality, if he really believes this stuff . . . 
    On the other hand, you know, when I went into this and would, you 
know, tell him how crazy some of these allegations were . . . 
    There was never--there was never an indication of interest in what 
the actual facts were . . . 
    In my opinion then, and my opinion now, is that the election was 
not stolen by fraud, and I haven't seen anything since the election 
that changes my mind on that, including the ``2000 Mules'' movie. 
[laughter]
    Ms. Lofgren. So maybe you can assess that ``2000 Mules,'' and 
people are talking about that.
    Attorney General Barr. Well, I mean, just in a nutshell, you know, 
I just think that the GBI was unimpressed with it, and I was similarly 
unimpressed with it because I think if you--because I was holding my 
fire on that to see what the photographic evidence was because I 
thought, well, hell, if they have a lot of photographs of the same 
person dumping a lot of ballots in different boxes, you know, that's 
hard to explain.
    So, I wanted to see what the photographic evidence was, but the 
cell phone data is singularly unimpressive. I mean it basically, if you 
take 2 million cell phones and--and figure out where they are 
physically in a big city like Atlanta or wherever, just by definition 
you're going to find many hundreds of them have passed by and spent 
time in the vicinity of these boxes.
    And the premise that, you know, if you go by about, you know, five 
boxes or whatever it was, you know, that that's a mule is just 
indefensible. If--by definition you're going to have a lot--hundreds of 
this. I mean, when I saw one contractor said, ``We figured out that our 
truck alone would account for six cell phone signals.'' This was a, you 
know, some kind of contractor. And you know, ``Our route would take us 
by these things on a regular basis.''
    So I--but then when the movie came out, you know, I think the 
photographic evidence in it was completely lack--I mean it was--there 
was a little bit of it, but it was lacking. You know it didn't--it 
didn't establish wide-spread illegal harvesting.
    The other thing is people don't understand is that it's not clear 
that even if you can show harvesting that that changes the--the results 
of the election. The courts are not going to throw out votes and then 
figure out what votes were harvested and throw them out. You'd still--
the burden on the challenging party to show that illegal votes were 
cast, votes were the result of undue influence or bribes or there was 
really, you know, the person was non compos mentis. But absent that 
evidence, I just didn't see courts throwing out votes anyway . . . 
    I felt that before the election it was possible to talk sense to 
the President. And while you sometimes had to engage in a big wrestling 
match with him, then it was possible to keep things on track. But I 
was--felt that after the election, he didn't seem to be listening, and 
I didn't think it was, you know, that I was inclined not to stay around 
if he wasn't listening to advice from me or his other Cabinet 
Secretaries.

    Ms. Lofgren. So, on December 14th, Barr quit.
    Now, the Attorney General wasn't the only person who told 
the President that his claims were false. Other officials and 
close advisors told him the same thing.

    Acting Attorney General Rosen. Rather than try to address a 
counterfactual or a hypothetical, let me just say, there were instances 
where the President would say, ``People are telling me this,'' or ``I 
heard this,'' or ``I saw on television,'' you know, this--this 
impropriety in Atlanta or Pennsylvania or something. And we were in a 
position to say, ``Our people already looked at that. And we know that 
you're getting bad information that--that's not correct. It's been 
demonstrated to be incorrect from our point of view. It had been 
debunked.''
    Mr. Lyons. A month-and-a-half or so after the election day and at 
that meeting, you know, various allegations of fraud were discussed, 
and you know, Eric and Pat didn't, you know--told the group, the 
President included, that none of those allegations had been 
substantiated to the point where they could be the basis for any 
litigation challenge to the election.

    Ms. Lofgren. President Trump's own Vice President and his 
top advisors also knew that there wasn't evidence to support 
the claims that the President was making.

    Mr. Harris. Anyone else other than Mr. Meadows who asked you about 
the status, outside of your legal group, you know, Mr. Morgan and the 
others you mentioned. Anyone else who asked you the status of what you 
were finding in your assessment of it?
    Mr. Cannon. Yes, sir.
    Mr. Harris. Who's that?
    Mr. Cannon. Peter Navarro.
    Mr. Harris. When did you talk to Mr. Navarro?
    Mr. Cannon. Mid-November.
    Mr. Harris. Around the same time as Mr. Meadows?
    Mr. Cannon. Yes, sir.
    Mr. Harris. And tell me about that conversation.
    Mr. Cannon. I recall him asking me questions about Dominion. And 
maybe some other categories of allegations of voter fraud. And I 
remember telling him that I didn't believe the Dominion allegations 
because I thought the hand recount in Georgia would resolve any issues 
with a technology problem and with Dominion or Dominion flipping votes.
    And I mentioned at that time that the CISA, Chris Krebs, had 
recently released a report saying that the election was secure. And I 
believe Mr. Navarro accused me of being an agent of the deep state 
working with Chris Krebs against the President. And I never took 
another phone call from Mr. Navarro . . . 
    Mr. Harris. Anyone else besides Mr. Meadows, Mr. Navarro, Mr. 
Hershman that you had discussions with inquiring about what you were 
finding in your review of the allegations that were pouring in?
    Mr. Cannon. I believe I had about a 15-second conversation with the 
Vice President about it as well.
    Mr. Harris. When was that?
    Mr. Cannon. During one of the visits to the White House. I don't 
know which one. I think it was the first one in November. I was--I had 
met him briefly at the campaign, and he remembered me and saw me. And 
he asked what I was doing on the campaign, and I told him that we were 
looking into some of the issues related to voter fraud.
    And he asked me, I don't remember his exact words, but he asked me 
if we were finding anything. And I said that I didn't believe we were 
finding--or, I was not personally finding--anything sufficient to alter 
the results of the election. And he--he thanked me. That was our 
interaction.

    Ms. Lofgren. At a later hearing, you'll hear live testimony 
from the former Acting Deputy Attorney General of the 
Department of Justice, Rich Donoghue, but now I would like to 
play a portion of his testimony.

    Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue. I tried to again put this 
in perspective and to try to put it in very clear terms to the 
President. And I said something to the effect of, ``Sir, we've done 
dozens of investigations, hundreds of interviews. The major allegations 
are not supported by the evidence developed. We've looked at Georgia, 
Pennsylvania, Michigan, Nevada. We're doing our job. Much of the info 
you're getting is false.'' And then I went into, ``For instance, this 
thing from Michigan--this report about 68 percent error rate. Reality 
is it was only 0.0063 percent error rate, less than 1-in-15,000.'' So, 
the President accepted that. He said, ``Okay, fine, but what about the 
others?''
    And again, this gets back to the point that there were so many of 
these allegations that when you gave him a very direct answer on one of 
them, he wouldn't fight us on it, but he would move to another 
allegation. So, then I talked about--a little bit about the 
Pennsylvania truck driver. This is another allegation that had come up. 
And this claim was by a truck driver who believed, perhaps honestly, 
that he had transported an entire tractor trailer truck full of ballots 
from New York to Pennsylvania.
    And this was again out there in the public and discussed, and I 
essentially said, ``Look, we looked at that allegation. We looked at 
both ends, both the people who load the truck and the people unload the 
truck. And that allegation was not supported by the evidence.'' Again, 
he said, ``Okay''--then he said, ``Note, I didn't mention that one. 
What about the others?''
    And I said, ``Okay, well, with regard to Georgia, we looked at the 
tape, we interviewed the witnesses, there is no suitcase.'' The 
President kept fixating on this suitcase that supposedly had fraudulent 
ballots, and that the suitcase was rolled out from under the table. And 
I said, ``No, sir, there is no suitcase. You can watch the video over 
and over. There is no suitcase. There is a wheeled bin where they carry 
the ballots, and that's just how they move ballots around that 
facility. There's nothing suspicious about that at all.''
    I told him that there was no multiple scanning of the ballots--
one--one part of that allegation was that they were taking one ballot 
and scanning it through three or four or five times to rack up votes 
presumably for Vice President Biden. I told him that the video did not 
support that.
    Then he went off on double voting--the top of the next page. He 
said, ``Dead people are voting. Indians are getting paid to vote.'' He 
meant people on Native American reservations. He said, ``There's lots 
of fraud going on here.'' . . . 
    Told him flat out that much of the information he's getting is 
false and/or just not supported by the evidence. We looked at the 
allegations, but they don't pan out.

    Ms. Lofgren. Mr. Barr and his advisors were not the only 
ones who determined that the President's allegations regarding 
Dominion voting machines were false.
    So, Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to include in the 
record of this hearing reports issued by the Department of 
Homeland Security's Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security 
Agency, otherwise known as CISA, that addressed and rejected 
the claims of manipulation of voting machines in the 2020 
election.\1\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\ The information has been included in the Appendix and may be 
found on page 32.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, so ordered.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    I also ask unanimous consent to include in the record a 
report prepared by the Michigan senate oversight committee that 
disproved claims of election fraud in Michigan;\2\ as well as a 
statement by 59 of the country's leading election security 
scientists noting the absence of any credible evidence that the 
2020 election had been altered through technical compromise;\3\ 
and 5 other reports from organizations and individuals 
confirming there was no wide-spread fraud in the 2020 election 
or describing the spread of the former President's lies.\4\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\ The information has been included in the Appendix and may be 
found on page 33.
    \3\ The information has been included in the Appendix and may be 
found on page 87.
    \4\ The information has been included in the Appendix and may be 
found on page 89.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, so ordered.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Pursuant to the order of the Committee 
of today, the Chair declares the Committee in recess for a 
period of approximately 10 minutes.
    [Accordingly, at 12:02 p.m., the Committee recessed until 
12:16 p.m., when it was called to order by the Chairman.]
    Chairman Thompson. I now welcome our second panel of 
witnesses.
    We are joined today by BJay Pak, Al Schmidt, and Ben 
Ginsberg.
    Mr. Pak is a former U.S. Attorney for the Northern District 
of Georgia.
    Mr. Schmidt is a former city commissioner for the city of 
Philadelphia, where he served for more than 10 years.
    Mr. Ginsberg is one of the leading election law attorneys 
in the country and has represented Republican Presidential 
candidates in election litigation dating back to 2000, where he 
represented George W. Bush in the Bush v. Gore litigation.
    I will now swear in our witnesses.
    Please stand and raise your right hands.
    [Witnesses sworn.]
    Chairman Thompson. Thank you. Please be seated.
    Let the record reflect the witnesses answered in the 
affirmative.
    Pursuant to section 5(c)(8) of House Resolution 503, I now 
recognize the gentlewoman from California, Ms. Lofgren, for 
questions.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Before the break, I think you all heard Mr. Barr and Mr. 
Donoghue talk about the false claims that Mr. Trump and his 
supporters made about suitcases of fake ballots in Georgia. We 
have a witness here today who thoroughly investigated that 
issue.
    Mr. Pak, I want to thank you for appearing before us today.
    You were appointed by President Trump to serve as the U.S. 
Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia, and you served 
from 2017 until January 2021. You were the lead Federal 
prosecutor there and worked for the Department of Justice under 
then-Attorney General Bill Barr.
    Now, were you ever asked by Attorney General Barr to 
investigate claims of voter fraud in the 2020 election? If so, 
what were those claims?
    Mr. Pak. Thank you, Congresswoman Lofgren. Thank you for 
the question.\5\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \5\ The prepared statement of Mr. Pak has been included in the 
Appendix and may be found on page 29.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Approximately December 4th, I believe, of 2020, Attorney 
General Barr and I had a conversation about an unrelated case 
at issue. At the end of the conversation, Mr. Barr had asked me 
if I had seen a certain videotape that was being reported in 
the news where Mr. Giuliani, in a senate subcommittee hearing 
that was held the day before, December 3rd, showed a videotape 
of a purportedly--a security tape at the State Farm Arena in 
Atlanta, which is also in Fulton County, in the city of 
Atlanta--oh, I am sorry, city of--yes.
    At the time, Mr. Barr asked me--he had made a public 
statement that he had not seen any wide-spread election fraud 
that would question the outcome of the election, and because of 
the videotape and the serious allegation that Mr. Giuliani was 
making with respect to the suitcase full of ballots purported 
in the video, he asked me to find out what I could about it, 
because he had envisioned that in some days after our call that 
he was going to go to the White House for a meeting and then 
that issue might come up. He asked me to make it a priority to 
get to the bottom of--to try to substantiate the allegation 
made by Mr. Giuliani.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you.
    I understand the Georgia secretary of state's office 
investigated those State Farm Arena allegations and didn't find 
any evidence of fraud.
    What did you find when your office conducted its own 
investigation?
    Mr. Pak. We found that the suitcase full of ballots, the 
alleged black suitcase that was being seen pulled from under 
the table, was actually an official lockbox where ballots were 
kept safe.
    We found out that there was a mistake in terms of a 
misunderstanding that they were done counting ballots or 
tallying ballots for the night, and the partisan watchers that 
were assigned by each of the respective parties were announced 
to go home.
    But once they realized the mistake, someone from the 
secretary of state's office had indicated, ``No, no, no, we're 
not done for the night. You need to go ahead and continue 
counting.'' So, once they packed up the lockbox full of 
ballots, they brought back the official ballot box again and 
continued to tally the ballots from that--from the lockbox.
    Unfortunately, during the senate hearing, Mr. Giuliani only 
played a clip that showed them pulling out the official ballot 
box from under the table and referring to that as a smoking gun 
of fraud in Fulton County, but, in actuality, in review of the 
entire video, it showed that that was actually an official 
ballot box that was kept underneath the tables, and then we saw 
them pack up because of the announcement that they thought they 
were done for the night, and then, once the announcement was 
made that you should continue counting, they brought the ballot 
box back out and they continued to count.
    We interviewed--the FBI interviewed the individuals that 
are depicted in the videos that purportedly were double-, 
triple-counting the ballots and determined that nothing 
irregular happened in the counting and the allegations made by 
Mr. Giuliani were false.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you very much.
    I would like to play again testimony from Mr. Donoghue, who 
appeared before the Committee before today.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Mr. Donoghue you--we talked at some length about 
whether or not the White House or the President was informed about the 
Antrim report. On the results of the investigations, the interviews 
that have gone on on Fulton County, how would those results have been 
communicated to the White House, to the President?
    Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue. I don't know how they were 
initially communicated. I do know that they came up in subsequent 
conversations with the President, and DAG Rosen and I essentially told 
him, ``We looked into that and it's just not true.''
    Vice Chair Cheney. Okay. So, he was--he was informed.
    Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue. I told the President 
myself that several times, in several conversations that these 
allegations about ballots being smuggled in in a suitcase and run 
through the machine several times, it was not true--that we looked at 
it. We looked at the video; we interviewed the witnesses; it was not 
true.

    Ms. Lofgren. Mr. Pak, after you left the U.S. attorney's 
office on January 4, 2021, did the next U.S. attorney there, I 
think Mr. Trump's personal pick, Bobby Christine, did he 
investigate any remaining claims of fraud? If so, did he find 
any evidence that supported the President's claims of voter 
fraud?
    Mr. Pak. It is my understanding that Mr. Christine 
continued any investigations that were pending at the time of 
my departure, but he was unable to find any evidence of fraud 
that affected the outcome of the election.
    Ms. Lofgren. So, after investigating the President's and 
Mr. Giuliani's claims about voter fraud in Georgia, is it your 
view today that there was no evidence of wide-spread fraud 
sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome of the 
election in Georgia?
    Mr. Pak. That is correct.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you, Mr. Pak. I want to thank you also 
for the service that you have given to our country. We 
appreciate that.
    Next, I would like to turn to President Trump's false 
allegations about election integrity in Philadelphia. The 
Attorney General discussed these allegations at some length.

    Attorney General Barr. You know, the idea the President has 
repeatedly suggested that there was some kind of outpouring of 
unexpected votes in inner city areas like Philadelphia as recently as 
January 13th when he walked off the NPR set. He was asked by the 
interviewer, you know, what's--you know, what's your evidence of fraud?
    And he said more people voted in Philadelphia than there were 
voters. And that was absolute rubbish. The turnout in Philadelphia was 
in line with the State's turnout and in fact it was not as--as 
impressive as many suburban counties. And there was nothing strange 
about the Philadelphia turnout. It wasn't like there were all these 
unexpected votes that came out in Philadelphia.
    So, you know, I think once you actually look at the votes and then 
if there's an obvious explanation, he--you know, for example, in 
Pennsylvania, Trump ran weaker than the Republican ticket generally. He 
ran weaker than two of the State candidates. He ran weaker than the 
Congressional delegate--delegation running for Federal Congress, and he 
ran weaker than the--the Republican--I think, I haven't looked at this 
recently, but he generally was a weak element on the Republican ticket. 
So, that does not suggest that the election was stolen by fraud.
    Mr. Heaphy. How about Pennsylvania and Bill McSwain? You were 
talking with the U.S. attorney in Philadelphia about an alleged 
discrepancy between the number of absentee ballots issued and the 
number of ballots cast.
    Attorney General Barr. Right. So, I--I--you know, that was a--a--
one of the big ones for a period of time. I think--I think that was 
raised in Gettysburg by Giuliani or something like that, but it kept on 
being repeated. And I found it annoying because it didn't seem that it 
was right. So, I called--I called McSwain, and he got back to me. He 
said, ``No, the problem is that Mastriano, threw out a--threw out this 
number. And what he did was he mixed apples and oranges. He took the 
number of applications for the Republican primary, and he compared it 
to the number of absentee votes cast in the general election. But once 
you actually go and look and compare apples to apples, there's no 
discrepancy at all.''
    And, you know, that's one of the--I--I think at some point I 
covered that with the President.

    Ms. Lofgren. We have another witness here today who has 
detailed knowledge about the election process in Philadelphia.
    Mr. Schmidt, at the time of the 2020 Presidential election, 
you were serving as the only Republican member of 
Philadelphia's three-member city commission which is 
responsible for overseeing elections throughout the city. Is 
that correct?
    Mr. Schmidt. That is correct, Congressperson.
    Ms. Lofgren. So, President Trump made numerous claims 
regarding fraudulent voting practices in Philadelphia, 
including the claim that dead people were voting. In fact, Mr. 
Giuliani told Pennsylvania State legislators that 8,000 dead 
people voted in Pennsylvania.
    You investigated those claims of voter fraud. Can you tell 
us what you found?
    Mr. Schmidt. Not only was there not evidence of 8,000 dead 
voters voting in Pennsylvania, there wasn't evidence of 8.
    We took seriously every case that was referred to us, no 
matter how fantastical, no matter how absurd, and took every 
one of those seriously, including these.
    Ms. Lofgren. As it turns out, even Mr. Trump's campaign 
lawyers knew that the dead voter claims weren't valid.

    Mr. Giuliani. I guess the crooks in Philadelphia are disappointed 
in this. They only submitted 8,021 ballots from dead people--mail-in 
ballots for dead people. Probably easier for dead people to submit 
mail-in ballots than it is to vote in person.
    Mr. Herschmann. Rudy was at this stage of his life and the same 
ability to manage things at this level or not. And obviously, I think 
Bernie Kerik publicly said it. They never proved the allegations that 
they were making, and they were trying to develop.

    Ms. Lofgren. Mr. Schmidt, on November 11, 2020, President 
Trump tweeted about you, saying--and here is a quote--``A guy 
named Al Schmidt, a Philadelphia Commissioner and so-called 
Republican (RINO), is being used big time by the Fake News 
Media to explain how honest things were with respect to the 
Election in Philadelphia. He refuses to look at a mountain of 
corruption & dishonesty. We win!''
    As a result of that tweet and the CNN interview you gave 
where you stated the dead voter claims in Pennsylvania were 
false, you and your staff were subjected to disturbing threats. 
Can you tell us about that?
    Mr. Schmidt. The threats prior to that tweet--and, on some 
level, it feels almost silly to talk about a tweet, but we can 
really see the impact that they have, because, prior to that, 
the threats were pretty general in nature: ``Corrupt election 
officials in Philadelphia are gonna get what's coming to 
them''; ``You're what the Second Amendment is for''; ``You're 
walking into the lion's den''--all sorts of things like that.
    After the President tweeted at me by name, calling me out 
the way that he did, the threats became much more specific, 
much more graphic, and included not just me by name but 
included members of my family by name, their ages, our address, 
pictures of our home--just every bit of detail that you could 
imagine. That was what changed with that tweet.
    Ms. Lofgren. Behind me are redacted threats that you 
received that you have provided to the Committee. Now, we 
redacted portions of the text to protect your family.
    Mr. Schmidt, I think I speak for all of my colleagues when 
I say we are deeply sorry for what you and your loved ones have 
been through. I also want to thank you for your service to your 
country and for standing up for the rule of law.
    I want to thank both Mr. Pak and Mr. Schmidt for their 
service, their testimony, and for standing up for the rule of 
law.
    Now I would like to turn to another subject.
    The courts in our country provide a legitimate venue for 
campaigns to challenge what they view as irregular election 
practices. Now, courts have the final say on how the law 
applies to those challenges.
    We have a renowned legal expert here to address the Trump 
campaign's activities in court.
    Mr. Ginsberg, you have spent your entire career 
representing Republicans in election-related litigation. You 
served as the national counsel on Republican Presidential 
campaigns in 2000, in 2004, and in 2012. You played a key role 
in the 2000 Florida recount that led to the Supreme Court's 
decision in Bush v. Gore. You served as the co-chair of the 
Presidential Commission on Election Administration. I think it 
is fair to say you are the most prominent Republican lawyer who 
has litigated in the election field.
    Now, you have analyzed the Trump campaign's litigation 
pretty carefully. What is the, like, normal process for post-
election litigation? How was the Trump campaign's different 
from the kinds of post-election litigation you have been 
involved in and know about?
    Mr. Ginsberg. In the normal course of things, any campaign, 
on the night of the election and in the days after, will do a 
couple of different things.
    One is that they will analyze precinct results to look for 
abnormalities in the results, and they will send people to 
those precincts to ask more questions.
    Second, all campaigns will have poll watchers and poll 
workers and observers in the polling place. So, campaigns will 
talk to those people if they saw any irregularities that could 
cause problems in the election.
    Now, the Trump campaign talked pre-election about having 
50,000 poll workers, so presumably they did have eyes on the 
ground in all of these places.
    So, in the normal course of things, a campaign will analyze 
the reports that come in. The Trump campaign had a couple of 
basic problems, however. No. 1, the 2020 election was not 
close. In 2000, that was 537 and close. In this election, the 
most narrow margin was 10,000-and-something in Arizona, and you 
just don't make up those sorts of numbers in recounts.
    When the claims of fraud and irregularities were made, you 
have heard very compelling testimony from Mr. Stepien, from 
Matt Morgan, from Alex Cannon about those claims and how they 
didn't believe them. So, that put the Trump campaign on sort-of 
a process of bringing cases without the actual evidence that 
you have to have and which the process is designed to bring 
out.
    Ms. Lofgren. So, are you aware of any instance in which a 
court found the Trump campaign's fraud claims to be credible?
    Mr. Ginsberg. No. There was never that instance in all the 
cases that were brought. I have looked at the more than 60 that 
include more than 180 counts. No, the simple fact is that the 
Trump campaign did not make its case.
    Ms. Lofgren. The Select Committee has identified 62 post-
election lawsuits filed by the Trump campaign and his allies 
between November 4, 2020, and January 6, 2021. Those cases 
resulted in 61 losses and only a single victory, which actually 
didn't affect the outcome for either candidate.
    Despite those 61 losses, President Trump and his allies 
claim that the courts refused to hear them out and, as a 
result, they never had their day in court.
    Mr. Ginsberg, what do you say about the claims that Mr. 
Trump wasn't given an opportunity to provide the evidence they 
had of voter fraud? In fact, did they have their day in court?
    Mr. Ginsberg. They did have their day in court.
    About half of those cases that you mentioned were dismissed 
at the procedural stage for a lack of standing--the proper 
people didn't bring the case--or there wasn't sufficient 
evidence and it got dismissed on a motion to dismiss.
    But, in the others, there was discussion of the merits that 
were contained in the complaints, and in no instance did a 
court find that the charges of fraud were real.
    It is also worth noting that, even if the Trump campaign 
complained that it did not have its day in court, there have 
been post-election reviews in each of the 6 battleground States 
that could have made a difference, and those ranged from the 
somewhat-farcical Cyber Ninjas case in Arizona to the Michigan 
senate report that was mentioned earlier, the hand recount in 
Georgia that Mr. Pak addressed, and in each one of those 
instances there was no credible evidence of fraud produced by 
the Trump campaign or his supporters.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you.
    You know, as Mr. Ginsberg has explained, there are no cases 
where the Trump campaign was able to convince a court that 
there was wide-spread fraud or irregularities in the 2020 
election.
    Over and over, judges, appointed by Democrats and 
Republicans alike, directly rebutted this false narrative. They 
called out the Trump campaign's lack of evidence for its 
claims. The judges did that even in cases where they could have 
simply thrown out the lawsuit without writing a word.
    You can see behind me a few excerpts from the decisions in 
these 62 cases.
    The Trump campaign's lack of evidence was criticized by 
judges across the political spectrum.
    In Pennsylvania, a Trump-appointed judge concluded, 
``Charges require specific allegations and proof. We have 
neither here.''
    Another Trump-appointed judge warned that, if cases like 
these succeeded, ``Any disappointed loser in a Presidential 
election able to hire a team of clever lawyers could flag 
claimed deviations from election results and cast doubt on 
election results.''
    The list goes on and on.
    Allegations are called, ``an amalgamation of theories, 
conjecture, and speculation.'' In another, ``strained legal 
arguments without merit''; ``unsupported by evidence''; 
``derived from wholly unreliable sources''; ``a fundamental and 
obvious misreading of the Constitution.''
    The rejection of President Trump's litigation efforts was 
overwhelming. Twenty-two Federal judges appointed by Republican 
Presidents, including 10 appointed by President Trump himself, 
and at least 24 elected or appointed Republican State judges 
dismissed the President's claims.
    At least 11 lawyers have been referred for disciplinary 
proceedings due to bad faith and baseless efforts to undermine 
the outcome of the 2020 Presidential election. Rudy Giuliani 
had his license to practice law suspended in New York, and, 
just this week, a newly-filed complaint will potentially make 
his suspension from practicing law in D.C. permanent.
    As we have just heard from perhaps the most preeminent 
Republican election lawyer in recent history, the Trump 
campaign's unprecedented effort to overturn its election loss 
in court was a deeply damaging abuse of the judicial process.
    As stated by U.S. District Court Judge David Carter, this 
was ``a coup in search of a legal theory.''
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. I want to thank our witnesses for 
joining us today.
    The Members of the Select Committee may have additional 
questions for today's witnesses, and we ask that you respond 
expeditiously in writing to those questions.
    Without objection, Members will be permitted 10 business 
days to submit statements for the record, including opening 
remarks and additional questions for the witnesses.
    The second panel of witnesses is now dismissed.
    Without objection, the Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from California, Ms. Lofgren, for a closing statement.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Now that we understand the litigation efforts by President 
Trump and his allies, I would like to present additional 
actions taken by the Trump campaign during this time.
    President Trump continued to push the ``stolen election'' 
narrative even though he and his allies knew that their 
litigation efforts making the same claim had failed.
    Now, it is worth pointing out that litigation generally 
does not continue past the safe harbor date of December 14th. 
But the fact that this litigation went on--well, that decision 
makes more sense when you consider the Trump campaign's 
fundraising tactics. Because if the litigation had stopped on 
December 14th, there would have been no fight to defend the 
election and no clear path to continue to raise millions of 
dollars.
    Mr. Chairman, at this time, I would ask for unanimous 
consent to include in the record a video presentation 
describing how President Trump used the lies he told to raise 
millions of dollars from the American people. These fundraising 
schemes were also part of the effort to disseminate the false 
claims of election fraud.
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, so ordered.

    Ms. Wick. My name is Amanda Wick, and I'm senior investigative 
counsel at the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th 
Attack on the United States Capitol.
    Between election day and January 6th, the Trump campaign sent 
millions of fundraising emails to Trump supporters, sometimes as many 
as 25 a day. The emails claimed the, `` . . . Left-wing MOB'' was 
undermining the election; implored supporters to, ``step up . . . to 
protect the integrity'' of the election; and encourage them to, ``fight 
back.''
    But as the Select Committee has demonstrated, the Trump campaign 
knew these claims of voter fraud were false. Yet they continued to 
barrage small-dollar donors with e-mails encouraging them to donate to 
something called the Official Election Defense Fund. The Select 
Committee discovered no such fund existed.
    Ms. Allred. I don't believe there was actually a fund called the 
Election Defense Fund.
    Mr. Aganga-Williams. Is it fair to say that the Election Defense 
Fund was another--I think we can call that a marketing tactic?
    Mr. Coby. Yes.
    Mr. Aganga-Williams. And tell us about these funds as marketing 
tactics.
    Mr. Coby. Just the topic matter where money could potentially go to 
be--how money could potentially be used.
    Ms. Wick. The claims that the election was stolen were so 
successful President Trump and his allies raised $250 million, nearly 
$100 million in the first week after the election.
    On November 9, 2020, President Trump created a separate entity 
called the Save America PAC. Most of the money raised went to this 
newly-created PAC, not to election-related litigation.
    The Select Committee discovered that the Save America PAC made 
millions of dollars of contributions to pro-Trump organizations, 
including $1 million to Trump Chief of Staff Mark Meadows's charitable 
foundation; $1 million to the America First Policy Institute, a 
conservative organization which employs several former Trump 
administration officials; $204,857 to the Trump Hotel Collection; and 
over $5 million to Event Strategies Inc., the company that ran 
President Trump's January 6th rally on the Ellipse.
    President Trump. All of us here today do not want to see our 
election victory stolen by emboldened radical left Democrats, which is 
what they're doing.
    Ms. Wick. The evidence developed by the Select Committee highlights 
how the Trump campaign aggressively pushed false election claims to 
fundraise, telling supporters it would be used to fight voter fraud 
that did not exist. The emails continued through January 6th, even as 
President Trump spoke on the Ellipse.
    Crowd. [unintelligible]
    Ms. Wick. Thirty minutes after the last fundraising email was sent, 
the Capitol was breached.
    Crowd. U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! [unintelligible] U-S-A! U-S-A!

    Ms. Lofgren. Every American is entitled and encouraged to 
participate in our electoral process. Political fundraising is 
part of that. Small-dollar donors use scarce disposable income 
to support candidates and causes of their choosing, to make 
their voices heard, and those donors deserve the truth about 
what those funds will be used for.
    Throughout the Committee's investigation, we found evidence 
that the Trump campaign and its surrogates misled donors as to 
where their funds would go and what they would be used for. So, 
not only was there the Big Lie, there was the Big Rip-Off.
    Donors deserve to know where their funds are really going. 
They deserve better than what President Trump and his team did.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. Without objection, the Chair recognizes 
the gentlewoman from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for a closing 
statement.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank all of our witnesses 
today.
    I would also like to, in particular, wish Mr. Stepien and 
his family all the best on the arrival of a new baby.
    Today's hearing, Mr. Chairman, was very narrowly focused, 
and in the coming days you will see the Committee move on to 
President Trump's broader planning for January 6th, including 
his plan to corrupt the Department of Justice and his detailed 
planning with lawyer John Eastman to pressure the Vice 
President, State legislatures, State officials, and others to 
overturn the election.
    Let me leave you today with one clip to preview what you 
will see in one of our hearings to come. This is the testimony 
of White House lawyer Eric Herschmann. John Eastman called Mr. 
Herschmann the day after January 6th, and here is how that 
conversation went.

    Mr. Herschmann. I said to him, ``Are you out of your f-ing mind?'' 
I said I could--I only want to hear two words coming out of your mouth 
from now on, ``Orderly transition.''

    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. At the conclusion of last week's 
hearing, we showed you a video of rioters explaining why they 
had come to Washington on January 6th. It was because Donald 
Trump told them to be here.
    Today, we heard about some of the lies Donald Trump 
embraced and amplified when it became clear he didn't have the 
numbers of votes to win the election.
    We heard about how officials at different levels of 
government explored claims of fraud and found no evidence, yet 
the former President continued to repeat those false claims 
over and over again.
    Today, we will end things where we did on Thursday, back on 
January 6th, hearing words of individuals who wanted to stop 
the transfer of power. We know they were there because of 
Donald Trump. Now we will hear some of the things they 
believed.
    Without objection, I enter into the record a video 
presentation.

    Voice. I know exactly what's going on right now: fake election. 
They think they're going to fucking cheat us out of our vote and put 
Communist fucking Biden in office. It ain't fucking happening today, 
buddy.
    Voice. You voted?
    Voice. Yes, sir.
    Voice. How'd it go?
    Voice. Voted early, it went well except for the can't--can't really 
trust software--Dominion software all over it.
    Voice. We voted, and right in the top, right-hand corner of the 
Dominion voting machine that we used, there was a wi-fi symbol with 
five bars, so that most definitely connected to the internet, without a 
doubt. So, they stole that from us twice. We're not doing it anymore. 
We're not taking it anymore. So, we're standing up. We're here. 
Whatever happens, we're not laying down again.
    Voice. I'm from Pennsylvania.
    Voice. It worked.
    Voice. It didn't work. It absolutely----
    Voice. It worked----
    Voice. It didn't work----
    Voice. You voted.
    Voice. No!
    Voice. Trust the system.
    Voice. Two hundred thousand people that weren't even registered 
voted. Four hundred and thirty thousand votes disappeared from 
President Trump's tally, and you can't stand there and tell me it 
worked.
    Voice. I don't want to tell you that what we're doing is right, but 
if the election's being stolen what is it going to take?

    Chairman Thompson. The Chair requests those in the hearing 
room remain seated until the Capitol Police have escorted 
Members from the room.
    Without objection, the Committee stands adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 12:50 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.]



                            A P P E N D I X

                              ----------                              

              Prepared Statement of Byung Jin ``BJay'' Pak
                             June 13, 2022
    Chairman Thompson, Vice Chair Cheney, and Members of the Committee, 
good morning, and thank you for the opportunity to speak with you 
today. My name is BJay Pak, and I had the great honor to serve as the 
Senate-confirmed U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia 
from October 10, 2017, to January 4, 2021. My resignation early last 
year capped off nearly a decade of service in the U.S. Department of 
Justice, as I had previously served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in 
the Criminal Division of my former office, from 2002 to 2008. I have 
also had the honor to serve in the judicial branch of the Federal 
Government as a law clerk for Judge Richard Mills of the United States 
District Court for the Central District of Illinois. Moreover, I served 
as a State Representative in the Georgia General Assembly from 2011 to 
2017. Because I am a believer in term limits, I decided not to stand 
for re-election after three terms. Since 2021, I have been in private 
practice in Atlanta, Georgia.
    As a 10-year-old immigrant boy from South Korea, I never could have 
imagined that I would one day serve the United States as the chief 
Federal law enforcement officer for one of the largest Federal 
districts in the Nation. Unlike the Americans who were granted 
citizenship through birthright, I, along with millions of immigrants to 
this Nation, had the privilege to take an oath to become a citizen of 
this great country. The oath of citizenship is very similar to the oath 
I took to become a U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia. 
Each oath makes clear, in no uncertain terms, that one's allegiance is 
to the Constitution, and not to any President, or political party. The 
oath has served as my guiding principle throughout my public service 
career.
    Like many Americans, I was called to public service after the 
terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. Prior to the attacks, I 
thought our country was invincible. But those attacks showed that we 
were vulnerable, and our country needed its citizens to help protect 
it, and to serve within its ranks. I was fortunate to be able to serve 
nearly a decade in the Department of Justice--the only Department in 
the country that has a moral virtue in its name.
    My testimony today relates to my time as U.S. attorney, and 
particularly, the last month of my tenure. The events which unfolded on 
January 6th at the U.S. Capitol brought extreme shock and 
disappointment to Americans and to the world. I certainly felt those 
same emotions as I saw images of that event on television. But I hope 
that what occurred that day and the days leading up to January 6th will 
never overshadow all the great work done by the career public servants 
who faithfully serve the Northern District of Georgia and the 
Department of Justice every single day.
    During my tenure as U.S. attorney, from fiscal year 2017 to fiscal 
year 2020, our prosecutors and law enforcement partners:
   increased overall prosecutions by 30 percent;
   increased drug enforcement by 85 percent to fight the opioid 
        epidemic;
   increased white-collar crime prosecutions by 112 percent;
   help recover hundreds of millions of dollars in restitutions 
        and fines; and,
   instituted an innovative and successful recidivism reduction 
        program for violent offenders who were returning to society 
        after serving their sentences.
    Of course, 2020 was a particularly difficult year for our country 
generally, and for the Northern District of Georgia in particular. We 
started the year working through the longest Government shutdown in 
recent history and faced challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
demonstrations and unrest following the murders of George Floyd and 
Ahmaud Arbery, including challenges from those who sought to use the 
cover of legitimate protest as an opportunity to wreak havoc and 
mayhem. At the end of the year, the 2020 Presidential election became 
one of the most intense in our Nation's recent history. As this 
Committee is well aware, Georgia was a hotly contested swing State, and 
our office and our law enforcement partners in the Northern District of 
Georgia went above and beyond the call of duty to fulfill their mission 
to enforce the law, despite the many challenges that they faced.
                      state farm arena video clip
    Among those challenges were individuals who continuously made false 
allegations that the elections in Georgia had serious irregularities, 
or that the result of those elections was fraudulent. One such example 
was the alleged ``suitcase full of fake ballots'' incident. On December 
3, 2020, Rudy Giuliani appeared before a subcommittee of the Georgia 
State senate that was looking into election integrity issues. During 
the hearing, Mr. Giuliani played a video clip purportedly showing the 
tallying of ballots from Fulton County at the State Farm Arena on 
election night--November 3, 2020. I learned of his appearance at the 
committee hearing and the existence of the video clip through media 
reports. According to the media reports, Mr. Giuliani claimed that the 
video showed the Fulton County election workers at State Farm Arena 
taking a black ``suitcase'' out from under a table, removing 
purportedly fake ballots from the suitcase, and running the purportedly 
fake ballots through the tabulating machine after the observers from 
the respective political parties had been sent home. Mr. Giuliani 
claimed that this video was a ``smoking gun'' of evidence of election 
fraud in Fulton County.
    Mr. Giuliani's claims were simply untrue and making such a claim 
was reckless. At the request of Attorney General William Barr, our 
office and the FBI conducted a preliminary inquiry to evaluate whether 
any of the allegations made by Mr. Giuliani with respect to the State 
Farm Arena video could be substantiated. After reviewing the evidence 
and interviewing witnesses, my office and the FBI concluded that there 
was nothing to substantiate Mr. Giuliani's claims, let alone any 
potential violations of Federal law. The ``suitcase'' was a legitimate 
lockbox used to store official ballots, and all lockboxes and ballots 
were accounted for. I reported our conclusions from the preliminary 
inquiry to Attorney General Barr, and to Rich Donoghue, who was then 
the principal associate deputy attorney general to Deputy Attorney 
General Jeff Rosen.
    One unfortunate consequence of Mr. Giuliani making such 
unsubstantiated claims of election fraud was that the Fulton County 
Election workers depicted in the State Farm Arena video clips were 
``doxed''--in other words, their names, addresses, and other 
information were publicized. I received reports that they were being 
harassed, and that some had received death threats. As a result, law 
enforcement resources had to be diverted from other areas and deployed 
to protect the workers.
                             jeffrey clark
    A few days before January 1, 2021, I spoke again with Mr. Donoghue, 
who was by this time, the acting deputy attorney general. Mr. Donoghue 
indicated that he had just left a long meeting at the White House with 
President Trump. He told me that the President was singularly focused 
on Georgia, and that he was unable to dissuade the President from the 
notion that that he won Georgia, and that the election was stolen. I 
reiterated to Mr. Donoghue that, although every election has some 
irregularities, I had received no substantial reports of election fraud 
supported by evidence, enough to even initiate a formal investigation. 
Mr. Donoghue agreed and expressed frustration that some individuals 
were feeding the President various unsubstantiated theories of election 
fraud, and that he and others had to spend a significant amount of time 
to dispel the theories.
    Mr. Donoghue then asked if I knew Jeff Clark. I have never met nor 
spoken with Mr. Clark. Mr. Donoghue told me that Mr. Clark was the 
Assistant Attorney General for the Environment & Natural Resources 
Division, and at the time, was also the Acting Assistant Attorney 
General of the Civil Division. Mr. Donoghue stated that Mr. Clark had 
``the President's ear'', and that Mr. Clark was suggesting that the 
DOJ, in an extremely unorthodox fashion, both intervene in support of 
the Trump campaign in a civil lawsuit filed in Fulton County, Georgia 
alleging election fraud, and sign a letter urging the Georgia 
legislature to call a special session to investigate alleged election 
irregularities. Mr. Donoghue and I both felt strongly that this was 
highly unusual and not appropriate. Mr. Donoghue also told me that Mr. 
Clark would call me about election irregularities. I told Mr. Donoghue 
that I would be happy to tell Mr. Clark that there was no evidence of 
wide-spread election fraud, and that I would reject any request for the 
U.S. attorney's office to either intervene in a lawsuit or ask any 
State authority to pause the certification process. Mr. Donoghue stated 
that he would not be surprised if the President himself called me. I 
told Mr. Donoghue that even if the President called me himself, my 
answer would not change. Neither Mr. Clark nor President Trump ever 
contacted me, however.
                              resignation
    After President Biden's victory in the 2020 election, I had always 
planned to submit my resignation in January 2021, as is customary for 
many DOJ political appointees. My plan was to make my resignation 
effective on Inauguration Day--January 20, 2021, so that my first 
assistant U.S. attorney would be promoted as acting U.S. attorney, 
pursuant to the Federal Vacancies Reform Act. I did not announce my 
intentions to the public at that time. However, during the latter part 
of December, I notified members of the U.S. attorney's office, the 
District Court, and some of our law enforcement partners of my plans. I 
also told Mr. Donoghue.
    On January 3, 2021, I learned for the first time, through media 
reports, of the call between President Trump and Georgia Secretary of 
State Brad Raffensperger, in which President Trump reportedly attempted 
to persuade Secretary Raffensperger to ``find votes,'' and continued to 
claim that the Georgia election was ``rigged.'' On learning about this 
call, I was deeply concerned and disturbed about what was being asked 
of the Office of the Secretary of State and considered resigning 
immediately. I eventually decided against an immediate resignation, 
given the upcoming run-off election in Georgia where the control of the 
U.S. Senate hung in the balance; I did not want my sudden resignation 
to be used or interpreted in any way to influence that run-off 
election.
    Around 10 o'clock pm that evening, I noticed that I had several 
missed calls from Mr. Donoghue, and a text from him asking me to return 
his calls. When I called him back, Mr. Donoghue told me that he and 
Acting Attorney General Rosen had returned from a 3-hour meeting at the 
White House during which the President had expressed extreme 
displeasure toward the DOJ for ``not doing enough'' about the purported 
fraud that he believed cost him the election. Mr. Donoghue indicated 
that the President had read a 2016 New York Times article--in which I 
was quoted regarding how then-candidate Trump's campaign rhetoric 
created difficulties in recruiting minorities to the Republican party--
and became convinced that I was a ``never-Trumper,'' which in the 
President's mind, was the reason there was no election fraud 
investigations in Atlanta. The President wanted the DOJ leadership to 
fire me. Mr. Rosen and Mr. Donoghue were opposed to my removal and told 
the President that, as I am a Senate-confirmed U.S. attorney, they did 
not have the power to fire me. At that point, someone at the meeting 
noted that I was already going to submit my resignation in the upcoming 
week, so the President could simply accept my resignation early, rather 
than fire me. The President indicated that he wanted the resignation 
letter as soon as possible.
    Mr. Donoghue offered to place me in a Senior Executive Service 
position within DOJ until Inauguration. I declined because, after the 
revelations of that day, I no longer wished to serve in that 
administration. Concerned about the disruption that would be caused by 
a sudden transition of leadership in the office, I asked Mr. Donoghue 
if my first assistant U.S. attorney, Kurt Erskine, could serve as 
acting U.S. attorney after my resignation. Mr. Donoghue said that he 
and Mr. Rosen had suggested Mr. Erskine to the President, but the 
President recommended that Bobby Christine, then the U.S. Attorney for 
the Southern District of Georgia, serve as the acting U.S. Attorney for 
Northern District, because the President had heard ``good things'' 
about Mr. Christine. Mr. Donoghue indicated that the President called 
Mr. Christine from the White House to offer him the position. Mr. 
Donoghue stated that Mr. Christine was caught off-guard by the offer 
and was confused as to whether he could even serve in both roles 
simultaneously. Mr. Donoghue indicated that I could choose how to 
announce my resignation, either in a press conference to ``blow the 
whistle'' or by issuing a statement. He suggested that a low-key 
resignation would be best for all involved, especially when he and a 
few others were ``trying to hold the ship together'' until 
Inauguration. I told him I would think about it and let him know.
    The next morning on Monday, January 4, 2021, I called Mr. Donoghue 
on my way to the office to let him know that I had decided to make a 
quiet exit, as I did not want my resignation to become a distraction to 
those who still had a job to do at DOJ. I told Mr. Donoghue to ``hang 
in there,'' because we needed him, and that it was an honor to serve 
the Nation with him. I then called Mr. Christine to arrange a 
conference call between our leadership teams to facilitate a smooth 
transition and offered to set up a briefing on all election-related 
investigations that were pending.
    Once at the office, I spoke to my first assistant U.S. attorney, 
Mr. Erskine, and the remaining members of my leadership team to inform 
them that I would be resigning, effective immediately. I then sent my 
resignation to the Acting Attorney General and to the President.
    Despite the abrupt end to my tenure as U.S. attorney, I am proud of 
the great work done by our everyday heroes in the law enforcement 
community, and by the U.S. attorney's office for the Northern District 
of Georgia. Serving as U.S. attorney and working with the dedicated 
public servants has been the greatest honor of my professional life. 
But the best part of working in the U.S. Department of Justice, and in 
particular the U.S. attorney's office, is that it is where you do the 
right thing, the right way, for the right reasons. I have strived to 
conduct myself in a way that serves and honors those ideals.
    Thank you for your time. God bless you, and may God bless these 
United States.
                                 ______
                                 
  Joint Statement of Elections Infrastructure Government Coordinating 
  Council & The Election Infrastructure Sector Coordinating Executive 
                               Committees
                Original release date: November 12, 2020
    WASHINGTON.--The members of Election Infrastructure Government 
Coordinating Council (GCC) Executive Committee--Cybersecurity and 
Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Assistant Director Bob Kolasky, 
U.S. Election Assistance Commission Chair Benjamin Hovland, National 
Association of Secretaries of State (NASS) President Maggie Toulouse 
Oliver, National Association of State Election Directors (NASED) 
President Lori Augino, and Escambia County (Florida) Supervisor of 
Elections David Stafford--and the members of the Election 
Infrastructure Sector Coordinating Council (SCC)--Chair Brian Hancock 
(Unisyn Voting Solutions), Vice Chair Sam Derheimer (Hart InterCivic), 
Chris Wlaschin (Election Systems & Software), Ericka Haas (Electronic 
Registration Information Center), and Maria Bianchi (Democracy Works)--
released the following statement:
    ``The November 3d election was the most secure in American history. 
Right now, across the country, election officials are reviewing and 
double checking the entire election process prior to finalizing the 
result.
    ``When States have close elections, many will recount ballots. All 
of the States with close results in the 2020 Presidential race have 
paper records of each vote, allowing the ability to go back and count 
each ballot if necessary. This is an added benefit for security and 
resilience. This process allows for the identification and correction 
of any mistakes or errors. There is no evidence that any voting system 
deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or was in any way compromised.
    ``Other security measures like pre-election testing, State 
certification of voting equipment, and the U.S. Election Assistance 
Commission's (EAC) certification of voting equipment help to build 
additional confidence in the voting systems used in 2020.
    ``While we know there are many unfounded claims and opportunities 
for misinformation about the process of our elections, we can assure 
you we have the utmost confidence in the security and integrity of our 
elections, and you should too. When you have questions, turn to 
elections officials as trusted voices as they administer elections.''
    Last Published Date: November 12, 2020
                                 ______
                                 
           Report by the Michigan Senate Oversight Committee














































































































                                 ______
                                 
                          Joint Expert Report
   scientists say no credible evidence of computer fraud in the 2020 
 election outcome, but policy makers must work with experts to improve 
                               confidence
16 November 2020
    We are specialists in election security, having studied the 
security of voting machines, voting systems, and technology used for 
government elections for decades.
    We and other scientists have warned for many years that there are 
security weaknesses in voting systems and have advocated that election 
systems be better secured against malicious attack. As the National 
Academies recently concluded, ``There is no realistic mechanism to 
fully secure vote casting and tabulation computer systems from cyber 
threats.'' However, notwithstanding these serious concerns, we have 
never claimed that technical vulnerabilities have actually been 
exploited to alter the outcome of any U.S. election.
    Anyone asserting that a U.S. election was ``rigged'' is making an 
extraordinary claim, one that must be supported by persuasive and 
verifiable evidence. Merely citing the existence of technical flaws 
does not establish that an attack occurred, much less that it altered 
an election outcome. It is simply speculation.
    The presence of security weaknesses in election infrastructure does 
not by itself tell us that any election has actually been compromised. 
Technical, physical, and procedural safeguards complicate the task of 
maliciously exploiting election systems, as does monitoring of likely 
adversaries by law enforcement and the intelligence community. Altering 
an election outcome involves more than simply the existence of a 
technical vulnerability.
    We are aware of alarming assertions being made that the 2020 
election was ``rigged'' by exploiting technical vulnerabilities. 
However, in every case of which we are aware, these claims either have 
been unsubstantiated or are technically incoherent. To our collective 
knowledge, no credible evidence has been put forth that supports a 
conclusion that the 2020 election outcome in any State has been altered 
through technical compromise.
    That said, it is imperative that the U.S. continue working to 
bolster the security of elections against sophisticated adversaries. At 
a minimum, all States should employ election security practices and 
mechanisms recommended by experts to increase assurance in election 
outcomes, such as post-election risk-limiting audits.
    If you are looking for a good place to start learning the facts 
about election security, we recommend the recent National Academies of 
Science, Engineering, and Medicine (NASEM) study, ``Securing the 
Vote'', which is available for free download at https://doi.org/
10.17226/25120.
            Signed,
(Affiliations are for identification purposes only; listed 
        alphabetically by surname.)
1. Tony Adams, Independent Security Researcher.
2. Andrew W. Appel, Professor of Computer Science, Princeton 
University.
3. Arlene Ash, Professor, University of Massachusetts Medical School.
4. Steven M. Bellovin, Percy K. and Vida L.W. Hudson Professor of 
Computer Science; affiliate faculty, Columbia Law, Columbia University.
5. Matt Blaze, McDevitt Chair of Computer Science and Law, Georgetown 
University.
6. Duncan Buell, NCR Professor of Computer Science and Engineering, 
University of South Carolina.
7. Michael D. Byrne, Professor of Psychological Sciences and Computer 
Science, Rice University.
8. Jack Cable, Independent Security Researcher.
9. Jeremy Clark, NSERC/Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton/Catallaxy 
Industrial Research Chair in Blockchain Technologies, Concordia 
Institute for Information Systems Engineering.
10. Sandy Clark, Independent Security Researcher.
11. Stephen Checkoway, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Oberlin 
College.
12. Richard DeMillo, Chair, School of Cybersecurity and Privacy and 
Warren Professor of Computing, Georgia Tech.
13. David L. Dill, Donald E. Knuth Professor, Emeritus, in the School 
of Engineering, Stanford University.
14. Zakir Durumeric, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Stanford 
University.
15. Aleksander Essex, Associate Professor of Software Engineering, 
Western University, Canada.
16. David Evans, Professor of Computer Science, University of Virginia.
17. Ariel J. Feldman, Software Engineer.
18. Edward W. Felten, Robert E. Kahn Professor of Computer Science and 
Public Affairs, Princeton University.
19. Bryan Ford, Professor of Computer and Communication Sciences, Swiss 
Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne (EPFL).
20. Joshua M. Franklin, Independent Security Researcher.
21. Juan E. Gilbert, Banks Family Preeminence Endowed Professor & 
Chair, University of Florida.
22. J. Alex Halderman, Professor of Computer Science and Engineering, 
University of Michigan.
23. Joseph Lorenzo Hall, SVP Strong Internet, Internet Society.
24. Harri Hursti, Co-founder, Nordic Innovation Labs and Election 
Integrity Foundation.
25. Neil Jenkins, Chief Analytic Officer, Cyber Threat Alliance.
26. David Jefferson, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (retired).
27. Douglas W. Jones, Associate Professor of Computer Science, 
University of Iowa.
28. Joseph Kiniry, Principal Scientist, Galois, CEO and Chief 
Scientist, Free & Fair.
29. Philip Kortum, Associate Professor of Psychological Sciences, Rice 
University.
30. Carl E. Landwehr, Visiting Professor, University of Michigan.
31. Maggie MacAlpine, Co-founder, Nordic Innovation Labs and Election 
Integrity Foundation.
32. Bruce McConnell, former Deputy Under Secretary for Cybersecurity, 
Department of Homeland Security, (currently) president, EastWest 
Institute.
33. Patrick McDaniel, Weiss Professor of Information and Communications 
Technology, Penn State University.
34. Walter Mebane, Professor of Political Science and of Statistics, 
University of Michigan.
35. Eric Mill, Chrome Security PM, Google.
36. David Mussington, Professor of the Practice, School of Public 
Policy, University of Maryland College Park.
37. Peter G. Neumann, Chief Scientist, SRI International Computer 
Science Lab.
38. Lyell Read, Researcher at SSH Lab, Oregon State University.
39. Ronald L. Rivest, Institute Professor, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology.
40. Aviel D. Rubin, Professor of Computer Science, Johns Hopkins 
University.
41. Bruce Schneier, Fellow and Lecturer, Harvard Kennedy School.
42. Alexander A. Schwarzmann, Dean of Computer and Cyber Sciences, 
Augusta University.
43. Hovav Shacham, Professor of Computer Science, The University of 
Texas at Austin.
44. Micah Sherr, Provost's Distinguished Associate Professor, 
Georgetown University.
45. Barbara Simons, IBM Research (retired).
46. Kevin Skoglund, Chief Technologist, Citizens for Better Elections.
47. Michael A. Specter, EECS PhD Candidate, MIT.
48. Alex Stamos, Director, Stanford Internet Observatory.
49. Philip B. Stark, Professor of Statistics and Associate Dean of 
Mathematical and Physical Sciences, University of California, Berkeley.
50. Jacob Stauffer, Director of Operations, Coherent CYBER.
51. Camille Stewart, Cyber Fellow, Harvard Belfer Center.
52. Rachel Tobac, Hacker, CEO of SocialProof Security.
53. Giovanni Vigna, Professor, Computer Science, University of 
California, Santa Barbara.
54. Poorvi L. Vora, Professor of Computer Science, The George 
Washington University.
55. Dan S. Wallach, Professor, Departments of Computer Science and 
Electrical & Computer Engineering, Rice Scholar, Baker Institute of 
Public Policy, Rice University.
56. Tarah Wheeler, Cyber Fellow, Harvard Belfer Center.
57. Eric Wustrow, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical, 
Computer & Energy Engineering, University of Colorado Boulder.
58. Ka-Ping Yee, Review Team Member, California Secretary of State's 
Top-to-Bottom Review of Voting Systems.
59. Daniel M. Zimmerman, Principal Researcher, Galois and Principled 
Computer Scientist, Free & Fair.
                                 ______
                                 
Statement of Janai Nelson, President and Director-Counsel, NAACP Legal 
                   Defense and Educational Fund, Inc.
                              May 3, 2022
                            i. introduction
    Thank you for the opportunity to directly submit this statement to 
the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the 
United States Capitol. No other act of mass violence in modern history 
has threatened the existence of our Republican form of government more 
than the insurrection that occurred at the United States Capitol a mere 
16 months ago. The goal of the insurrectionists was clear: To 
effectuate a violent coup, deny the will of the majority of voters, and 
upend the functioning of our increasingly multi-racial, multi-ethnic 
democracy. Therefore, it is essential to the security and endurance of 
our democracy that this committee understand the January 6th attack in 
its full context: As a manifestation of broad white supremacist 
backlash against robust democratic participation by people of color. 
This backlash has been fueled in part by the false narrative that 
rampant voter fraud occurred in communities of color and also by a 
deep-seated fear that the changing racial and ethnic demographics in 
the United States and the increasing racial and ethnic diversity of the 
electorate threaten the existing power structure premised on white 
supremacy. Moreover, the insurrection was preceded and followed by a 
rash of racially discriminatory voter suppression laws aimed at Black 
and Brown Americans and which continue to threaten the integrity of our 
electoral process. Faced with the added specter of future mass violence 
in our electoral process, Congress must not only address the threat to 
our democracy by investigating the January 6th attack but also by 
enacting legislation to fully protect the right to vote and ensure 
against election subversion.
A. Statement of Purpose and Outline
    The purpose of this testimony is to make clear the explicit 
connection between the violence of January 6th and the legal 
retrenchment that both preceded and followed it, and to insist that 
Congress cannot address the root cause of the Insurrection without 
acting to build a more inclusive, multiracial, multi-ethnic democracy 
by protecting what the late Congressman John Lewis called the 
``precious, almost sacred'' right to vote for Black and Brown 
Americans.\1\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\ Rep. John Lewis: ``Your Vote Is Precious, Almost Sacred,'' PBS 
Newshour (Sep. 6, 2021),https://www.pbs.org/newshour/show/rep-john-
lewis-your-vote-is-precious-almost-sacred.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    I briefly discuss the history of racial progress and backlash in 
the United States; show how a false narrative about elections stolen 
through massive voter fraud has served as a coded appeal to white 
racial resentment and a central frame that connects the January 6th 
Insurrection with wide-spread efforts to restrict the franchise; 
highlight the historic 2020 turnout of voters of color that intensified 
the current backlash; detail the various ways the backlash has taken 
shape since 2020; and explain how furthering progress on race and 
preventing future insurrection both require solutions that promote a 
truly inclusive, multi-racial democracy, starting at the ballot box and 
that protect our elections from subversion.
B. LDF and Our Work
    LDF is America's premier legal organization fighting for racial 
justice. Through litigation, advocacy, and public education, LDF seeks 
structural changes to expand democracy, eliminate disparities, and 
achieve racial justice in a society that fulfills the promise of 
equality for all Americans. LDF also defends the gains and protections 
won over the past 80 years of civil rights struggle and works to 
improve the quality and diversity of judicial and executive 
appointments.
    Since its founding in 1940, LDF has been a leader in the fight to 
secure, protect, and advance the voting rights of Black voters and 
other communities of color.\2\ LDF's founder Thurgood Marshall--who 
litigated LDF's watershed victory in Brown v. Board of Education,\3\ 
which set in motion the end of legal segregation in this country and 
transformed the direction of American democracy in the 20th century--
referred to Smith v. Allwright,\4\ the 1944 case ending whites-only 
primary elections, as his most consequential case. He held this view, 
he explained, because he believed that the right to vote, and the 
opportunity to access political power, was critical to fulfilling the 
guarantee of full citizenship promised to Black people in the 14th 
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. LDF has prioritized its work 
protecting the right of Black citizens to vote for more than 80 years--
representing Martin Luther King Jr. and the marchers in Selma, Alabama 
in 1965, litigating seminal cases interpreting the scope of the Voting 
Rights Act, and working in communities across the South to strengthen 
and protect the ability of Black citizens to participate in a political 
process free from discrimination.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\ LDF has been an entirely separate organization from the NAACP 
since 1957.
    \3\ 347 U.S. 483 (1954).
    \4\ 321 U.S. 649 (1944).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In addition to a robust voting rights litigation docket, LDF has 
monitored elections for more than a decade through our Prepared to Vote 
initiative (``PTV'') and, more recently, through our Voting Rights 
Defender (``VRD'') project, which place LDF staff and volunteers on the 
ground for primary and general elections every year to conduct non-
partisan election protection, poll monitoring, and to support Black 
political participation in targeted jurisdictions--primarily in the 
South. LDF is also a founding member of the non-partisan civil rights 
Election Protection Hotline (1-866-OUR-VOTE), presently administered by 
the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law.
    ii. race in the united states: a history of progress & backlash
    America's history has been a halting and fraught journey concerning 
racial equality. This journey, however, has never been a straight line. 
In fact, the story of multiracial democracy in the United States is a 
tale of progress, backlash, and retrenchment--at times followed by 
further progress, yet often long-delayed.\5\ This pattern is clear in 
the experience of Black Americans across four centuries. The backlash 
that follows moments of progress can take many forms. Two 
manifestations, however, are consistent and concrete: Violence and 
legal changes intended to relegate Black people to the margins of 
democratic society. We've experienced several of these cycles 
throughout American history, and our current moment shows all the signs 
of this same pattern.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \5\ Indeed, 8 of the 17 post-Bill of Rights amendments to the U.S. 
Constitution expanded the franchise directly or expanded the 
Constitutional rights and protection to ensure a more inclusive vision 
of ``we the people'' over the course of XX years. U.S. CONST. amends. 
XIII, XIV, XV, XVII, XIX, XXIII, XXIV, XXVI.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
A. Cycles of Progress and Backlash
    The first substantial step toward racial equality in the United 
States came through the post-Civil War amendments to the Constitution, 
which ushered in an era known as Reconstruction. During this period, 
the Federal Government enforced new rules protecting the civil and 
voting rights of Black people in the South, and as a result Black 
people began to build political power through elected office and 
economic stability through institutions such as trade unions.\6\ This 
moment of progress, however, engendered a severe backlash wherein the 
influence and dominance of white supremacy was restored through 
violence and laws, in a period known as Redemption.\7\ Following the 
Compromise of 1877, the Federal Government withdrew its enforcement of 
the rules protecting the civil and voting rights of Black people and 
the Supreme Court ruled that courts would not protect Black people's 
civil rights against private actors \8\ resulting in nearly a century 
of racial terror through lynchings, mob violence, and Jim Crow ``Black 
Codes'' enforcing strict segregation and second-class citizenship 
ensued.\9\ It was not until the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960's, 
and specifically the Voting Rights Act of 1965, that the racial caste 
system reestablished through Redemption began to give way.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \6\ Eric Foner, The Second Founding: How the Civil War and 
Reconstruction Remade the Constitution (2019).
    \7\ Id.
    \8\ U.S. v. Cruikshank, 92 U.S. 542 (1876).
    \9\ Foner supra note 6.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    This pattern of progress and retrenchment has repeated throughout 
American history. In the early 20th Century, Black Americans began to 
leave the South--often under cloak of darkness--to escape the yoke of 
Jim Crow and seek fairer treatment and economic opportunity in the 
cities of the North.\10\ This ``Great Migration'' of approximately 6 
million people provided opportunities unfathomable in the Redemption 
South. Yet those who migrated North were not met with open arms. The 
backlash from Northern whites and the National power structure 
manifested in myriad ways, but perhaps the most painful and lasting was 
redlining--a process through which mortgage lenders enforced strict 
residential segregation and robbed Black Americans of the single 
biggest opportunity to build generational wealth.\11\ Ironically, the 
same Federal Government that briefly enforced Southern Blacks' rights 
during Reconstruction now drove their deprivation in Northern cities 
through its racist housing policy \12\ among other racially 
discriminatory practices.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \10\ Isabel Wilkerson, The Warmth of Other Suns: the Epic Story of 
America's Great Migration (2011).
    \11\ Richard Rothstein, The Color of Law (2018); Lisa Rice, Long 
Before Redlining: Racial Disparities in Homeownership Need Intentional 
Policies, Shelterforce (Feb. 15, 2019), https://shelterforce.org/2019/
02/15/long-before-redlining-racial-disparities-in-homeownership-need-
intentional-policies/; Douglas S. Massey & Nancy A. Denton, American 
Apartheid: Segregation and the Making of the Underclass (1998); Ira 
Katznelson, When Affirmative Action Was White: An Untold History of 
Racial Inequality in Twentieth-Century America (2005); Robert C. 
Lieberman, Shifting the Color Line: Race and the American Welfare State 
(Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1998).
    \12\ See generally Color of Law.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Similarly, the progress of LDF's landmark Brown v. Board of 
Education case which ended decades of legal segregation in America's 
public schools, was followed by ``massive resistance'' and segregation 
academies.\13\ In addition to defying the law to maintain racial 
hierarchy throughout the South, communities chose to shutter public 
infrastructure rather than share it equally--even draining public pools 
rather than allowing Black and white children to swim together.\14\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \13\ Report: Segregation in America, EQUAL JUSTICE INITIATIVE 
(2018), 20-39, https://segregationinamerica.eji.org/
report.pdf?action=purge.
    \14\ HEATHER MCGHEE, THE SUM OF US: WHAT RACISM COSTS EVERYONE AND 
HOW WE CAN PROSPER TOGETHER (2021).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Keeping with this insidious pattern, the progress of electing the 
Nation's first Black president in 2008 was followed by a substantial 
mobilization of white Americans through the Tea Party movement who 
pushed back vehemently against policies that once received bipartisan 
support (such as health insurance mandates) and questioned President 
Barack Obama's birthplace and thus his legitimacy as President.\15\ 
More recently, robust public demonstrations of anguish and anger over 
George Floyd's murder and countless other examples of police devaluing 
Black lives with wanton violence generated an important National 
conversation about structural racism. However, these multi-racial 
efforts to confront police violence against communities of color have 
been met with sharp backlash in the form of white-led State 
legislatures and school boards passing so-called ``anti-critical race 
theory'' measures that mandate that our public school systems teach 
students an inaccurate, sanitized version of American history and ban 
an increasing number of books about race, including some classic texts 
that have long been part of the public school curricula.\16\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \15\ Robb Willer, Matthew Feinberg & Rachel Wetts, Threats to 
Racial Status Promote Tea Party Support Among White Americans (May 4, 
2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2770186 or http://
dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2770186.
    \16\ In Defense of Truth, NAACP LDF (accessed Jan. 19, 2022), 
https://www.naacpldf.org/truth/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
B. The Response to the 2020 Presidential Election Fits the Pattern of 
        Cyclical Backlash
    The 2020 Presidential election and its aftermath fit the long-
standing cyclical pattern of progress and backlash that continually 
thwarts efforts at cementing durable change to perfect our union. In 
2020, communities of color drove robust voter turnout leading to 
electoral results that challenged the political status quo. The 
violence on January 6th and the attendant effort to override the valid 
outcome of the 2020 Presidential election were one concrete form of 
backlash, and the rash of anti-voter laws introduced and enacted in 
States across the country, building on a wave of voter suppression 
efforts that preceded the election,\17\ was another. Both responses 
were fueled by a common false narrative rooted in racism and the 
project of white supremacy. What will happen next remains an open 
question. Whether we confront this backlash head-on and advance toward 
further progress or backslide into what some have justly called Jim 
Crow 2.0 depends in significant part upon Congress' response to the 
current moment.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \17\ Will Wilder, Voter Suppression in 2020, Brennan Center for 
Justice (Aug. 20, 2020), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/
research-reports/voter-suppression-2020.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  iii. framing the 2020 backlash: false rhetoric of stolen elections 
           connects january 6th to on-going voter suppression
    Coded racial appeals have served as an overarching frame for the 
backlash against the 2020 election. Those seeking to stoke racial 
resentment for their political and economic advantage began laying the 
groundwork for this frame for many years prior to 2020. For decades, 
those seeking to restrict the franchise have used false concerns about 
voter fraud to justify barriers to the ballot.\18\ This framework began 
to take center stage during the prior administration. When President 
Trump won the 2016 election through the Electoral College but fell more 
than 3 million total votes short of Hillary Clinton, he told his 
supporters that there was only one reasonable explanation: Millions of 
people had voted illegally for Clinton, masking his true victory among 
legitimate voters.\19\ With no actual evidence of voter fraud to 
support his claim, Trump set up the Presidential Commission on Election 
Integrity allegedly to find it.\20\ The Commission produced no such 
evidence and shut down amidst credible allegations of secrecy, 
mismanagement, and discriminatory intent.\21\ Nonetheless, the mere 
creation of this high-level government commission stoked doubt about 
the sanctity of our elections and likely helped legitimize the false 
claim of rampant voter fraud for some.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \18\ German Lopez, The case against voter ID laws, in one chart, 
Vox.com (August 6, 2015), https://www.vox.com/2015/8/6/9107927/voter-
id-election-fraud; See also, Quinn Scanlan, `We've never found systemic 
fraud, not enough to overturn the election: Georgia Secretary of State 
Raffensperger says,' ABC News (Dec. 6, 2020), https://abcnews.go.com/
Politics/weve-found-systemic-fraud-overturnelection-georgia-secretary/
story?id=74560956; Debunking the Voter Fraud Myth, Brennan Center for 
Justice (Jan. 31, 2017), https://www.brennancenter.org/sites/default/
files/analysis/Briefing_Memo_Debunking_Voter_Fraud_Myth.pdf.
    \19\ Glenn Kessler, Donald Trump's bogus claim that millions of 
people voted illegally for Hillary Clinton, Washington Post (Nov. 27, 
2016), https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/2016/11/27/
trumps-bogus-claim-that-millions-of-people-voted-illegally-for-hillary-
clinton/.
    \20\ President Announces Formation of Bipartisan Presidential 
Commission on Election Integrity, the White House (May 11, 2017), 
https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefings-statements/president-
announces-formation-bipartisan-presidential-commission-election-
integrity/.
    \21\ Jessica Huseman, A Short History of the Brief and Bumpy Life 
of the Voting Fraud Commission, ProPublica (Jan. 4, 2018), https://
www.propublica.org/article/a-short-history-of-the-brief-and-bumpy-life-
of-the-voting-fraud-commission.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Heading into the 2020 election, President Trump also told his 
supporters repeatedly that he could only lose through massive 
fraud;\22\ and he refused to say definitively whether he would accept 
the election results if he lost.\23\ When Trump did in fact lose the 
2020 Presidential election--both the popular vote and the Electoral 
College--his supporters echoed his false Statements that rampant fraud 
explained the outcome, and both the Trump campaign and legions of its 
most loyal supporters used this frame as a central theme to guide their 
activities in the aftermath. In response to false claims that the 2020 
election was stolen through rampant fraud, extremist factions 
orchestrated a campaign to disrupt the counting and certification of 
the Presidential election and ultimately to overturn its results.\24\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \22\ Zachary Wolf, The 5 key elements of Trump's Big Lie and how it 
came to be, CNN (May 19, 2021), https://www.cnn.com/2021/05/19/
politics/donald-trump-big-lie-explainer/index.html.
    \23\ David Leonhardt, Trump's Refusal to Concede, New York Times 
(Nov. 12, 2020), https://www.nytimes.com/2020/11/12/briefing/ron-klain-
jeffrey-toobin-tropical-storm-eta.html.
    \24\ Simon Romero, Shaila Dewan & Giulia McDonnell Nieto del Rio, 
In a Year of Protest Cries, Now It's `Count Every Vote!' and `Stop the 
Steal!', THE N.Y. TIMES (Nov. 5, 2020), https://www.nytimes.com/2020/
11/05/us/electionprotests-vote-count.html; LDF Issues Statement 
Condemning Breach of U.S. Capitol, Attempted Coup by Supporters of 
President Trump, NAACP LDF (Jan. 6, 2020), https://www.naacpldf.org/
press-release/ldf-issues-Statement-condemning-breach-of-u-s-capitol-
attempted-coup-by-supporters-of-president-trump/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    This false narrative of voter fraud is rooted in racism and 
connects the violence of January 6th to the litany of voter suppression 
laws taken up by nearly every State. First, the sharp racial divide 
between those promoting and believing these false claims and those who 
accept the results of the 2020 election is one indication of how the 
phantom fraud frame is in fact steeped in racism.\25\ Second, views 
about whether the 2020 election was stolen appear to be correlated with 
views on race. Third, the connection between the embrace of the false 
fraud narrative and regressive attitudes about race has manifest in 
legislatures across the country. For example, State legislators who 
were the authors or lead sponsors of some of the most aggressive 2021 
voter suppression laws have also introduced legislation banning so-
called ``critical race theory'' from being taught in schools; barred 
the removal of Confederate monuments; and responded to racial justice 
protests about police brutality against Black people by increasing 
criminal penalties for protest-related activities.\26\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \25\ Belief in the Big Lie narrative is sharply divided by 
partisanship, which is highly correlated with race. See Joel Rose & Liz 
Baker, 6 in 10 Americans say U.S. democracy is in crisis as `Big Lie' 
takes route, NPR (Jan. 3, 2022), https://www.npr.org/2022/01/03/
1069764164/american-democracy-poll-jan-6. In addition, ``Republicans 
most likely to believe that racism and discrimination are not a problem 
are also the most devout believers in the Stop the Steal narrative.'' 
Lee Drutman, Theft Perception, VOTER STUDY GROUP (June 2021), https://
www.voterstudygroup.org/publication/theft-perception.
    \26\ See AR H.B. 1218, 93d Gen. Assemb., Reg. Sess., (Ark. 2021) 
(banning school curricula that ``promotes societal division'' on the 
basis of race, among other factors), available at https://
www.arkleg.state.ar.us/Bills/
Detail?id=HB1218&ddBienniumSession=2021%2F2021R; AR H.B. 1231, 93d Gen. 
Assemb., Reg. Sess., (Ark. 2021) (banning teaching the 1619 Project), 
available at https://www.arkleg.state.ar.us/Bills/
Detail?id=HB1231&ddBienniumSession=2021%2F2021R; AR H.B. 1761, 93d Gen. 
Assemb., Reg. Sess., (Ark. 2021) (banning educational materials that 
portray any group of people as inherently racist, that argue that any 
group of people should feel guilt or shame due to race, and that the 
United States is systemically racist), available at https://
www.arkleg.state.ar.us/Bills/
Detail?id=HB1761&ddBienniumSession=2021%2F2021R; AR S.B. 12, 93d Gen. 
Assemb., Reg. Sess., (Ark. 2021) (adding schools to list of 
institutions that are not allowed to promote ``divisive concepts'' 
including that any group of people is inherently racist), available at 
https://www.arkleg.state.ar.us/Bills/
Detail?id=SB12&ddBienniumSession=2021%2F2021S2; and TX S.B. 3, 82d 
Leg., 2d Sess., (Tex. 2021) (banning curricula that promote the idea 
that anyone is inherently racist by virtue of their race, whether 
consciously or unconsciously, an individual bears responsibility for 
actions undertaken in the past by members of the same race, or the 
advent of slavery in the now-United States constituted the true 
founding of the United States, among other ideas), available at https:/
/capitol.texas.gov/BillLookup/History.aspx?LegSess=872&Bill=SB3. See 
also TX S.B. 1663, 86th Leg., Reg. Sess., (Tex. 2019) (banning the 
removal monuments that have existed for at least 40 years, among other 
restrictions), available at https://capitol.texas.gov/BillLookup/- 
History.aspx?LegSess=86R&Bill=SB1663; AR S.B. 553, 93d Gen. Assemb., 
Reg. Sess., (Ark. 2021) (banning the removal of monuments that pertain 
to any war, including the Civil War), available at https://
www.arkleg.state.ar.us/Bills/
Detail?id=SB553&ddBienniumSession=2021%2F2021R; and FL S.B. 288, 2019 
Sen., (Fla. 2019) (banning removal, alteration, concealment, etc. of 
statutes or memorials commemorating veterans or military organizations, 
including during the Civil War), available at https://www.flsenate.gov/
Session/Bill/2019/288/?Tab=BillText. See also GA S.B. 403, 2021-2022 
Gen. Assemb., Reg. Sess., (Ga. 2022) (providing immunity for law 
enforcement transporting individuals to mental health facilities), 
available at https://www.legis.ga.gov/legislation/61506; AL H.B. 284, 
2021 Leg., Reg. Sess., (Ala. 2021) (providing liability protection for 
law enforcement officials taking individuals with mental illness to a 
mental health facility and removing requirement that such officials go 
through the involuntary commitment process before doing so), available 
at https://legiscan.com/AL/text/HB284/id/2271288; TX H.B. 1788, 87th 
Leg., Reg. Sess., (Tex. 2021) (creating immunity for schools, school 
districts, and security personnel for ``reasonable actions'' taken by 
school security personnel to preserve safety), available at https://
capitol.texas.gov/BillLookup/- Text.aspx?LegSess=87R&Bill=HB1788; and 
FL S.B. 826, 2021 Sen., (Fla. 2021) (extending sovereign immunity to 
members of Child Protection Teams), available at https://
www.flsenate.gov/Session/Bill/2021/826/?Tab=BillText. See also AR S.B. 
300, 93d Gen. Assemb., Reg. Sess., (Ark. 2021) (prohibiting parole for 
certain firearm possession cases), available at https://
www.arkleg.state.ar.us/Bills/
Detail?id=SB300&ddBienniumSession=2021%2F2021R, AR H.B. 1866, 92d Gen. 
Assemb., Reg. Sess., (Ark. 2019) (imposing time limits on when someone 
can apply for a pardon), available at https://www.arkleg.state.ar.us/
Bills/Detail?id=HB1866&ddBienniumSession=2019%2F2019R; AR H.B. 1064, 
93d Gen. Assemb., Reg. Sess., (Ark. 2021) (increasing the loopback 
period for certain DWI offenses for the purpose of sentence 
enhancements), available at https://www.arkleg.state.ar.us/Bills/
Detail?id=HB1062&ddBienniumSession=2021%2F2021R; KY H.B. 215, 2022 Gen. 
Assemb., Reg. Sess., (Ky. 2022) (removing pretrial diversion and 
increasing minimum penalties for certain drug trafficking offenses), 
available at https://apps.legislature.ky.gov/record/22rs/hb215.html; GA 
S.B. 479, 2021-2022 Gen. Assemb., Reg. Sess., (Ga. 2022) (for firearm 
possession cases, charges a separate offense for each firearm 
possessed), available at https://www.legis.ga.gov/legislation/61936, 
and GA S.B. 359, 2021-2022 Gen. Assemb., Reg. Sess., (Ga. 2022) 
(providing minimum criminal penalties for a series of crimes, including 
some firearm felonies, and requiring the maximum sentence for certain 
repeat offender elder or child abuse crimes), available at https://
www.legis.ga.gov/legislation/61213.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Perhaps the clearest sign that the January 6th insurrection and the 
recent rash of anti-voter laws are not separate phenomena, but rather 
are two expressions of white racial anxiety about shifting power 
dynamics in the United States, is that both have strongholds in places 
where the white population is declining, either absolutely or in 
relation to people of color.
    The Chicago Project on Security & Threats analyzed various 
characteristics of 716 people who have been charged with crimes related 
to January 6th.\27\ After examining several factors, the Project 
determined that (other than county size) the strongest predictor of 
insurrection participation was residing in a county with a substantial 
decline in white population since 2015.\28\ The authors conclude that 
their ``analysis suggests that local decline of the non-Hispanic white 
population has a galvanizing effect, and counties that have had higher 
rates of non-Hispanic white population decline in the last half-decade 
are likely to produce insurrectionists at a higher rate.''\29\ They 
note further that, ``[g]iven the overwhelming whiteness of the 
population of insurrectionists, the finding that counties with higher 
rates of demographic change are also counties that sent more 
insurrectionists even when controlling for a host of competing factors 
is consistent with a political movement that is partially driven by 
racial cleavages and white discontent with diversifying 
communities.''\30\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \27\ Robert Pape et al., American Face of Insurrection: Analysis of 
Individuals Charged for Storming the US Capitol on January 6, 2021, 
Chicago Project on Security and Threats (Jan. 5, 2022), https://
d3qi0qp55mx5f5.cloudfront.net/cpost/i/docs/
Pape_American_Face_of_Insurrection_(2022-01-05)_1.pdf?mtime=1641481428.
    \28\ Id. at 21.
    \29\ Id. at 18.
    \30\ Id. at 21-22.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In sum, the false narrative around stolen elections is not just 
about a single politician or a single election but rather it 
effectively foments and channels a broader wave of status insecurity 
and racial resentment. It is a common progenitor of both the violence 
and attempt to erase the results of the 2020 election that occurred on 
January 6th and the wide-spread effort to restrict access to the 
ballot.
iv. voters of color overcame barriers to assert consequential political 
                             power in 2020
    The 2020 election was not beset with large-scale fraud, as those 
promoting the January 6th insurrection have claimed.\31\ It also did 
not, as numerous news reports suggested, ``go smoothly.''\32\ Accounts 
from LDF's Voting Rights Defender and Prepared to Vote teams, detailed 
in the LDF Thurgood Marshall Institute's latest Democracy Defended 
report,\33\ reveal the depth and breadth of the issues voters faced, 
especially voters of color. From onerous vote-by-mail restrictions 
during a pandemic to voter intimidation, poll closures and unreasonably 
long lines, Black voters in particular faced a litany of barriers to 
the ballot.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \31\ Melissa Block, The clear and present danger of Trump's 
enduring `Big Lie', National Public Radio (December 23, 2021), https://
www.npr.org/2021/12/23/1065277246/trump-big-lie-jan-6-election.
    \32\ Sherrilyn Ifill, No, This Election Did Not Go `Smoothly,' 
SLATE (Nov. 9, 2020), https://slate.com/news-andpolitics/2020/11/2020-
election-voting-did-not-go-smoothly.html.
    \33\ Thurgood Marshall Institute, Democracy Defended, NAACP LDF 
(Sept. 2, 2021), https://www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/
LDF_2020_DemocracyDefended-1-3.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Yet, participating in the 2020 Presidential election was historic. 
Voters overcame a host of obstacles with determination and resilience. 
Two-thirds of eligible voters casted ballots in the 2020 Presidential 
election.\34\ This is the highest turnout rate recorded since 1900; but 
it actually represents the highest turnout ever given the significant 
expansion of both the general population and the population of eligible 
voters since the turn of the twentieth century.\35\ Black voter turnout 
was greater than 65% and nearly matched records set when President 
Obama was on the ballot.\36\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \34\ Michael P. McDonald, National General Election VEP Turnout 
Rates, 1789-Present, UNITED STATES ELECTIONS PROJECT, Jan. 14, 2022, 
http://www.electproject.org/national-1789-present.
    \35\ Id.
    \36\ Michael P. McDonald, Voter Turnout Demographics, UNITED STATES 
ELECTIONS PROJECT (accessed Jan. 14, 2022), http://
www.electproject.org/home/voter-turnout/demographics.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The historic turnout continued on January 5, 2021 with Georgia's 
runoff election. Turnout in runoff elections, which occur after 
Election Day, is typically modest, and at times anemic. But, with 
control of the U.S. Senate at stake, and the opportunity to elect 
candidates who reflected the growing diversity of the State, a record 
60% of Georgians turned out in the January runoff.\37\ The 4.4 million 
Georgians who cast ballots on January 5 was more than double the number 
who voted in the previous record turnout runoff election in 2008.\38\ 
Black voters drove this historic participation, with Black turnout 
dropping just 8% from the general election compared with an 11% decline 
among white voters.\39\ The result was the election of the first Black 
and Jewish senators in Georgia's history.\40\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \37\ Nathaniel Rakich et al., How Democrats Won the Georgia 
Runoffs, FIVETHIRTYEIGHT (Jan. 7, 2021, 2:47 PM), https://
fivethirtyeight.com/features/how-democrats-won-the-georgia-runoffs/.
    \38\ Id.
    \39\ Mark Niesse & Jennifer Peebles, Turnout dip among Georgia 
Republicans flipped U.S. Senate, THE ATLANTA J.-CONST. (Feb. 2, 2021), 
https://www.ajc.com/politics/turnout-dip-among-georgia-republicans-
flipped-us-senate/IKWGEGFEEVEZ5DXTP7ZXXOROIA/.
    \40\ Steve Peoples, Bill Barrow, and Russ Bynum, Warnock, Ossoff 
win in Georgia, handing Dems control of Senate, ASSOCIATED PRESS (Jan. 
6, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/Georgia-election-results-
4b82ba7ee3cc74d33e68daadaee2cbf3.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    This historic turnout was no accident and was not driven by the 
stakes alone. National civil rights and civil liberties groups and 
Black-led grassroots organizations in Georgia had spent years 
challenging attempts to restrict access to the ballot and building 
substantial voter outreach campaigns to educate voters regarding the 
stakes of Federal, State, and local elections and assist communities as 
they navigate the voting process.\41\ The Herculean effort it took to 
help Black and Brown voters overcome barriers to the ballot in the 2020 
election is not sustainable, however, nor should it be required given 
the protections guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution. The backlash to 
the results of this historic turnout and its consequences was 
immediate.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \41\ Anna North, 6 Black women organizers on what happened in 
Georgia--and what comes next, Vox (November 11, 2020), https://
www.vox.com/21556742/georgia-votes-election-organizers-stacey-abrams.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  v. the post-2020 backlash in action
    A new chapter of an old story, the backlash to historic 2020 voter 
turnout among people of color has been swift and severe. As with past 
reactions to racial progress the post-2020 backlash has featured both 
violence and legal regression--in this case in the form of efforts to 
restrict the franchise. Based on the false narrative of voter fraud, 
this violence and votes backlash began with campaign operatives 
questioning vote totals in Black and Brown communities. It continued 
through a violent insurrection at the U.S. Capitol focused on 
invalidating the election results and thus the political power 
exercised by the Black and Brown communities and accelerated through 
both successful efforts to erect barriers to the ballot and a 
regressive redistricting cycle that severely constricts the ability of 
voters of color to assert their full strength at the polls. It 
continues to this day with active plans to subvert future elections.
A. Questioning Vote Totals in Black and Brown Communities
    The spark to this particular backlash was the turnout among voters 
of color, especially Black voters, that led to President Biden's 
victory in the 2020 election. President Trump and his allies reacted 
immediately by asserting claims of massive fraud and questioning vote 
totals, specifically targeting Black elections officials and voters in 
Black population centers such as Detroit (where election officials 
counting votes were mobbed and harassed),\42\ Philadelphia (where the 
FBI helped local police arrest two men with weapons suspected of a plot 
to interfere with ballot counting),\43\ and the Atlanta metro region 
(where Trump alleged that hundreds of thousands of ballots mysteriously 
appeared).\44\ Similarly, President Trump and his allies alleged fraud 
in places like Arizona where robust turnout among the Latino population 
was decisive. Again, we saw coordinated attempts to infiltrate ballot 
counting headquarters and tamper with vote counting.\45\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \42\ Bostock, supra note 41.
    \43\ Ewing et al., supra n. 41.
    \44\ Jeff Amy, Darlene Superville, & Jonathan Lemire, GA election 
officials reject Trump call to `find' more votes, ASSOCIATED PRESS 
(Jan. 4, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/trump-raffensperger-phone-
call-georgia-d503c8b4e58f7cd648fbf9a746131ec9.
    \45\ Lahut, supra n. 41.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Wayne County, Michigan emerged as a central focus of attempts to 
translate the false narrative regarding voter fraud into actual 
subversion of a free and fair election. On November 20, 2020, LDF filed 
a lawsuit on behalf of the Michigan Welfare Rights Organization and 
three individuals alleging that President Trump's attempt to prevent 
Wayne County, Michigan from certifying its election results was a clear 
example of intimidating those charged with ``aiding a[] person to vote 
or attempt to vote'' in violation of the Voting Rights Act, and that 
this intimidation was aimed at disenfranchising Black voters.\46\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \46\ Complaint, Mich. Welfare Rights Org. v. Trump, Civ. Action 20-
3388 (EGS) (D.D.C. Apr. 1, 2022). Available at https://
www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/Trump-Campaign-Complaint.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The Complaint explained how race was a driving factor in the 
Michigan certification debate: ``During [a meeting of the Wayne County 
canvassing board], one of the Republican Canvassers said she would be 
open to certifying the rest of Wayne County (which is predominately 
white) but not Detroit (which is predominately Black), even though 
those other areas of Wayne County had similar discrepancies [between 
ballot numbers and poll book records] and in at least one predominantly 
white city, Livonia, the discrepancies were more significant than those 
in Detroit.''\47\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \47\ Complaint at \27 at 7. Mich. Welfare Rights Org. v. Trump.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Subsequently, on December 21, 2020, LDF amended its Complaint, 
adding the NAACP as a Plaintiff, and alleging that President Trump and 
his supporters made similar efforts to disenfranchise voters--and 
especially Black voters--in other States, including Georgia, 
Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Arizona.
    The Amended Complaint summarizes the racial discrimination central 
to the post-election strategy to invalidate the political voice of 
Black and Brown communities:
    Under the specter of preventing ``fraud,'' Defendants engaged in a 
conspiracy, executed through a coordinated effort, to disenfranchise 
voters by disrupting vote counting efforts, lodging groundless 
challenges during recounts, and attempting to block certification of 
election results through intimidation and coercion of election 
officials and volunteers. These systematic efforts--violations of the 
VRA and the Ku Klux Klan Act--have largely been directed at major 
metropolitan areas with large Black voter populations. These include 
Detroit, Milwaukee, Atlanta, Philadelphia, and others. Because 
President Trump lost the popular vote in Michigan and other States that 
were necessary for a majority of the electoral college, Defendants 
worked to block certification of the results, on the (legally 
incorrect) theory that blocking certification would allow State 
legislatures to override the will of the voters and choose the Trump 
Campaign's slate of electors . . . On November 19, 2020, President 
Trump's personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, and others, held a press 
conference at the RNC headquarters in Washington, DC, where they 
repeated false allegations of fraud and openly discussed their strategy 
of disenfranchising voters in Detroit and Wayne County. At that press 
conference, Mr. Giuliani asserted without evidence that the Trump 
campaign had identified 300,000 ``illegitimate ballots,'' and stated: 
``These ballots were all cast basically in Detroit that Biden won 80-
20,'' and ``it changes the result of the election in Michigan, if you 
take out Wayne County.''\48\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \48\ Complaint at 18-21 Mich. Welfare Rights Org. v. Trump.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In sum, the strategy to block election certifications by alleging 
fraud and questioning vote totals was not only a political ploy to 
rescue a failed candidacy. But by focusing the efforts on cities and 
counties with large populations of voters of color, the strategy was 
also to advance a narrative that people of color are not legitimate 
actors in our democracy (as voters or election officials).
B. The January 6th Insurrection
    After challenging election results in communities of color, the 
next step in the violence and votes backlash was the January 6th 
Insurrection--just 1 day after Black voters asserted their power in 
Georgia. The violent attack on the Capitol on January 6th was a brazen, 
virulent, and deadly manifestation of the concerted effort to undermine 
our democracy, to overthrow the government, and to negate the votes 
cast by our communities. The information unveiled through the on-going 
investigations of this committee and the Department of Justice confirms 
that the violence was foreseeable and part of a larger planned coup 
attempt abetted by encouragement or deliberate inaction at the highest 
levels.\49\ The founder of the Oath Keepers and ten others have been 
charged with ``seditious conspiracy''\50\ and according to an early 
assessment, 13% of those arrested have had associations with militias 
or right-wing extremist groups.\51\ Perhaps most concerning, January 
6th marked an embrace of political violence and previously fringe 
ideologies by mainstream conservatives,\52\ a threat that has been 
growing for some time,\53\ has only worsened since the Insurrection and 
remains of serious concern.\54\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \49\ Paul LeBlanc, The January 6 committee formed 6 months ago. 
Here's what it's uncovered, CNN (January 4, 2022), https://www.cnn.com/
2021/12/29/politics/january-6-committee-investigation-trump-what-
matters/index.html; Department of Justice, One Year Since the Jan. 6 
Attack on the Capitol, (Updated Dec. 30, 2021), https://
www.justice.gov/usao-dc/one-year-jan-6-attack-capitol.
    \50\ Department of Justice, Leader of Oath Keepers and 10 Other 
Individuals Indicted in Federal Court for Seditious Conspiracy and 
Other Offenses Related to U.S. Capitol Breach: Eight Others Facing 
Charges in Two Related Cases, Department of Justice Office of Public 
Affairs (Jan. 13, 2022), https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leader-oath-
keepers-and-10-other-individuals-indicted-Federal-court-seditious-
conspiracy-and.
    \51\ Ayman Ismail, We Know Exactly Who the Capitol Rioters Were, 
Slate (Jan. 4, 2022), https://slate.com/news-and-politics/2022/01/
january-6-capitol-riot-arrests-research-profile.html.
    \52\ (``The normalization of the conspiracies that animate their 
beliefs is great news for extremists, who don't have to work nearly as 
hard to have their views accepted in the mainstream.'') Digital 
Forensic Research Lab, Experts react to the year since January 6, 
Atlantic Council (Jan. 4, 2022), https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/in-
depth-research-reports/experts-react-to-the-year-since-january-6/
#perilous; (``The Jan. 6 insurrectionists really are best understood as 
a product of the mainstream.'') Ayman Ismail supra note 60.
    \53\ Seth Jones, The Rise of Far-Right Extremism in the United 
States, Center for Strategic and International Studies (Nov. 7, 2018), 
https://www.csis.org/analysis/rise-far-right-extremism-united-states.
    \54\ (In a poll, 25% of Republicans believe the Qanon conspiracy 
and 15% of Americans believed that ``American patriots may have to 
resort to violence'') Giovanni Russonello, QAnon Now as Popular in U.S. 
as Some Major Religions, Poll Suggests, New York Times (updated Aug. 
12, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/05/27/us/politics/qanon-
republicans-trump.html; (``Extremist movements are stronger, conspiracy 
networks larger, and elements of the GOP more radical, with some 
elected officials spreading extremist views. The prosecution of 
insurrectionists has not shut down groups like the racist Proud Boys 
and anti-government Oath Keepers, or like-minded allies who thrive on-
line and on the streets.'') Digital Forensics Lab supra note 61.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    This attempt to thwart the peaceful transfer of power--the very 
hallmark of a functioning democracy--was the natural conclusion of 
years of rhetoric inciting and condoning racism and white 
supremacy,\55\ expanding the proliferation of conspiracy theories,\56\ 
and flouting the rule of law. More specifically, it was the direct 
result of false rhetoric regarding stolen elections that tapped into 
existing racial anxiety. As the political scientist Hakeem Jefferson 
and the sociologist Victor Ray have written, ``Jan. 6 was a racial 
reckoning. It was a reckoning against the promise of a multiracial 
democracy and the perceived influence of the Black vote.''\57\ We know 
this in part because ``those who participated in the insurrection were 
more likely to come from areas that experienced more significant 
declines in the non-Hispanic white population--further evidence that 
the storming of the Capitol was, in part, a backlash to a perceived 
loss of status, what social scientists call `perceived status threat.' 
''\58\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \55\ James Rainey & Melissa Gomez, Asked to condemn white 
supremacists, Trump tells Proud Boys hate group to `stand by', THE LA 
TIMES (Sept. 29, 2020), https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/
2020-09-29/asked-to-condemn-white-supremacists-trump-tells-proud-boys-
hate-group-to-stand-by.
    \56\ Shirin Ghaffary, The long-term consequences of Trump's 
conspiracy theory campaign, Vox (Nov. 20, 2020), https://www.vox.com/
recode/21546119/trump-conspiracy-theories-election-2020-coronavirus-
voting-vote-by-mail.
    \57\ Hakeem Jefferson & Victor Ray, White Backlash is a Type of 
Racial Reckoning, Too, FIVETHIRTYEIGHT (Jan. 6, 2022), https://
fivethirtyeight.com/features/white-backlash-is-a-type-of-racial-
reckoning-too/.
    \58\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Some of the most enduring imagery from the attack on the U.S. 
Capitol points to race as a central, underlying factor. Many 
photographs from the January 6th insurrection were disturbing, but one 
in particular encapsulated the historical significance and the stakes 
for our Republic: the image of an insurgent inside the U.S. Capitol 
brandishing a Confederate flag.\59\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \59\ Indeed, many insurrectionist donned Confederate paraphernalia. 
Javonte Anderson, Capitol riot images showing Confederate flag a 
reminder of country's darkest past, USA TODAY (Jan. 13, 2021), https://
www.usatoday.com/story/news/2021/01/07/capitol-riot-images-confederate-
flag-terror/6588104002/ . . . 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
C. The Backlash Accelerates: States Pass Anti-Voter Laws and Use 
        Centennial Redistricting to Weaken the Voices of Voters of 
        Color
    The next stage of the backlash played out in State legislatures 
across the country through bills and laws intended to block Black and 
Brown Americans' access to the ballot. In 2021 we saw a repeat of 
history--a steady drip of old poison in new bottles.\60\ Whereas in a 
bygone era discriminatory intent in voting restrictions was dressed up 
in the alleged espousal of ideals such as securing a more informed and 
invested electorate, the new professed justification is fighting voter 
fraud, an imaginary phantom that serves as a basis to attack the right 
to vote. State lawmakers introduced and advanced new voting laws 
targeted to ensure that the robust turnout among voters of color in the 
2020 Presidential election could not be repeated. Legislators 
introduced more than 400 bills in nearly every State aiming to restrict 
the franchise.\61\ Nineteen States enacted a total of 34 laws that roll 
back voting rights and erect new barriers to the ballot.\62\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \60\ Deuel Ross, Pouring Old Poison into New Bottles: How 
Discretion and the Discriminatory Administration of Voter ID Laws 
Recreate Literacy Tests1 45 COLUM. HUM. Rts. L. REV. 362 (2014).
    \61\ Resource: Voting Laws Roundup: December 2021, BRENNAN CENTER 
FOR JUSTICE (Jan. 12, 2022) https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/
research-reports/voting-laws-roundup-december-2021.
    \62\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Critically, many of these laws are directly targeted at blocking 
pathways to the ballot box that Black and Brown voters used 
successfully in 2020. For example, after Black voters increased their 
usage of absentee ballots as a result of the pandemic, S.B. 90 in 
Florida severely curtailed the use of unstaffed ballot return drop 
boxes and effectively eliminated community ballot collection.\63\ And 
in Georgia and Texas, after strong early in-person turnout among Black 
voters, lawmakers initially moved to outlaw or limit Sunday voting in a 
direct attack on the ``souls to the polls'' turnout efforts undertaken 
by many Black churches to mobilize voters to engage in collective civic 
participation.\64\ Another law in Georgia hampers vote-by-mail, cuts 
back on early voting, and more.\65\ The 2021 omnibus voting law in 
Texas eliminates a number of accessible, common-sense voting methods, 
including ``drive-thru'' voting and 24-hour early voting--both methods 
that proved invaluable for Black and Brown voters in Texas's largest 
cities in 2020.\66\ In all, these laws severely restrict the ability of 
voters of color to cast a ballot and specifically target the ways in 
which these voters participated successfully in the 2020 Presidential 
election.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \63\ See generally Compl. for Decl. and Inj. Relief, Fla. State 
Conferences of Branches v. Lee, No. 4:21-cv-00187-WS-MAF (N.D. Fla. May 
6, 2021), ECF No. 1.
    \64\ Letter from Sam Spital et al., NAACP LDF to Texas Senate (May 
29, 2021), https://www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/LDF-Conference-
Committee-Report-Opposition-Senate-20210529-1.pdf; Letter from John 
Cusick et al., NAACP LDF et al., to Georgia House of Representatives, 
Special Committee on Election Integrity (Mar. 14, 2021), https://
www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/LDF-SPLC-Written-Testimony-on-
SB202-3.18.21.pdf. In both States, after advocacy from LDF and others, 
lawmakers eventually removed these blatantly discriminatory provisions 
from the omnibus voting bills under consideration--although in both 
States, the final forms of the enacted bills remained extremely harmful 
to voters of color. See LDF Files Lawsuit Against the State of Florida 
Over Suppressive Voting Law, NAACP LDF (May 6, 2021), https://
www.naacpldf.org/press-release/ldf-files-lawsuit-against-the-state-of-
florida-over-suppressive-voting-law/; Civil Rights Groups Sue Georgia 
Over New Sweeping Voter Suppression Law, NAACP LDF (March 30, 2021), 
https://www.naacpldf.org/press-release/civil-rights-groups-sue-georgia-
over-new-sweeping-voter-suppression-law/.
    \65\ See S.B. 202, https://www.legis.ga.gov/api/legislation/
document/20212022/201498.
    \66\ Compl. for Decl. and Injunctive Relief, Houston Justice v. 
Abbott, No. 5:21-cv-00848 (W.D. Tex. Sept. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1, 
available at https://www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/Houston-
Justice-et-al.-v.-Abbott-et-al.-Complaint.pdf; see also Press Release: 
Lawsuit Filed Challenging New Texas Law Targeting Voting Rights, NAACP 
LDF (Sept. 7, 2021), https://www.naacpldf.org/press-release/lawsuit-
filed-challenging-new-texas-law-targeting-voting-rights/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The people targeted by these laws are well aware of what is 
happening and are actively fighting back. Jeffrey Clemmons, a Black 
resident of Harris County Texas in his early twenties who was a leader 
in his college NAACP chapter and served as an election judge in 2020, 
is suing to push back on the Texas 2021 voter suppression law, 
represented by LDF.\67\ Mr. Clemmons says:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \67\ Compl. for Decl. and Injunctive Relief, Houston Justice v. 
Abbott, No. 5:21-cv-00848 (W.D. Tex. Sept. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1.

``I absolutely think that the over 400 laws that were pushed through 
legislatures from Texas to Georgia to curtail our rights to vote were 
indeed because of the incredible turnout of people of color and young 
people again who had never turned up to the ballot box before. We felt 
so motivated and so strongly about this election because we knew [what] 
was on the line if we didn't vote in so many instances and because we 
are tired of not being represented properly . . . And so these election 
laws are an attempt to turn back the clock on our voting rights and 
make sure that [] never happens again to create, you know, this 
environment of fear that if you vote, you're going to be punished for 
it.''\68\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \68\ Interview by Adam Lioz, Senior Policy Counsel for LDF, with 
Jeffrey Clemmons (Jan. 10, 2022) (on file with author).

    Of the more than 400 bills introduced last year, at least 152 in 18 
States have carried over into current legislative sessions, and more 
than a dozen additional bills were pre-filed by December in 
anticipation of the 2022 session.\69\ As of January 2022, legislatures 
in more than half of U.S. States had introduced, pre-filed, or carried 
over more than 250 anti-voter bills.\70\ Like in 2021, many of these 
bills target the specific ways that Black and Brown voters have made 
their voices heard in recent elections.\71\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \69\ Resource: Voting Laws Roundup: December 2021, supra n. 70.
    \70\ Voting Laws Roundup: February 2022, Brennan Center for Justice 
(Feb. 9, 2022), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-
reports/voting-laws-roundup-february-
2022?_ga=2.231456991.1301012527.1649763533-1535293244.1632777334.
    \71\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In addition to enacting laws that restrict access to the ballot, 
several States have used the first centennial redistricting process in 
six decades without the full protection of the Voting Rights Act, to 
weaken the voices of voters of color. From 1970--just after the 
``reapportionment revolution'' forced line-drawers to adhere to the 
one-person, one-vote principal \72\--through the 2010 redistricting 
cycle, the preclearance protection of Section 5 of the Voting Rights 
Act was the most powerful tool to protect Black and Brown voters 
through the districting process. Section 5 certainly did not ensure 
that Black voters enjoyed fully equal representation throughout the 
country, but its anti-retrogression principle did mean that at least 
hostile State legislatures could not set Black voters further back 
after each Census.\73\ Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act has been a 
complementary tool, allowing Black and Brown voters and community 
organizations to bring lawsuits when district maps disempowered them 
compared with neighboring white communities.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \72\ See e.g., Baker v. Carr, 369 U.S. 186 (1962); Reynolds v. 
Sims, 377 U.S. 533 (1964).
    \73\ See 52 U.S.C. 10304(b); Beer v. United States, 425 U.S. 130 
(1976); Florida v. United States, 885 F..Supp. 2d 299 (D.D.C. 2012); 
Texas v. United States, 887 F. Supp.2d 133 (D. D.C. 2012).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The Supreme Court, however, substantially weakened these 
protections in the 2013 Shelby case when it undercut the preclearance 
protections of Section 5 and in 2021 when the Court made Section 2 
claims more challenging in Brnovich v. DNC.\74\ The result is that 
Black communities entered the current redistricting cycle with a 
shredded shield, more exposed to the manipulations of white-dominated 
State legislatures than at any time since Jim Crow.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \74\ 594 U.S. (2021).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Prior to the current round of redistricting, political 
representation in the United States was already sharply skewed. In 
2019, people of color made up 39% of the U.S. population but only 12% 
of elected officials across the country, according to an analysis of 
nearly 46,000 Federal, State, and local office holders.\75\ Put another 
way, white Americans occupied nearly 90% of elected offices in the U.S. 
despite forming just over 60% of the population.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \75\ Datasets, The Electability Myth: The Shifting Demographics of 
Political Power in America, REFLECTIVE DEMOCRACY CAMPAIGN, https://
wholeads.us/datasets/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The current districting process threatens to worsen this already 
skewed representation. The Nation has grown substantially more diverse 
since 2010,\76\ but political representation is not on track to reflect 
this growing diversity--and Black and Brown Americans are likely to see 
their representation remain static or even lose ground in many places 
rather than see their power increase with their numbers.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \76\ U.S. Census Bureau's Diversity Index has gone up from 54.9% to 
61.1% since 2010. Eric Jensen et al., The Chance That Two People Chosen 
at Random Are of Different Race or Ethnicity Groups Has Increased Since 
2010, U.S. CENSUS BUREAU (Aug. 12, 2021), https://www.census.gov/
library/stories/2021/08/2020-united-states-population-more-racially 
ethnically diverse-than-2010.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    According to the U.S. Census Bureau, more than 42% of Americans are 
now people of color.\77\ Since the 2010 Census, the Latino population 
grew by 23%, compared to just 4.3% non-Latino population growth.\78\ 
The Black population grew by nearly 6%.\79\ This growth was even 
starker among voters of color. One 2021 report projected that nearly 
80% of the growth in voting eligible population would be through people 
of color, including 17% from Black voters.\80\ These shifts, and the 
accompanying anxiety around power and social status, have made certain 
Americans vulnerable to the false fraud frame, especially in States 
with the most profound changes. A key backlash strategy has been to use 
the districting process to ensure that the power of voters of color 
does not grow with their numbers.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \77\ Id.
    \78\ Press Release, 2020 Census Statistics Highlight Local 
Population Changes and Nation's Racial and Ethnic Diversity, U.S. 
CENSUS BUREAU (Aug. 12, 2021), https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-
releases/2021/population-changes-nations-diversity.html.
    \79\ U.S. Census Bureau, 2010 Census Redistricting Data (Public Law 
94-171) Summary File, U.S. CENSUS BUREAU (accessed Jan. 18, 2022); U.S. 
Census Bureau, 2020 Census Redistricting Data (Public Law 94-171) 
Summary File, U.S. CENSUS BUREAU (accessed Jan. 18, 2022). See also 
U.S. Census Bureau, Race and Ethnicity in the United States: 2010 
Census and 2020 Census (Aug. 12, 2021), https://www.census.gov/library/
visualizations/interactive/race-and-ethnicity-in-the-united-state-2010-
and-2020-census.html.
    \80\ Michael C. Li, The Redistricting Landscape, 2021-2022, BRENNAN 
CENTER FOR JUSTICE (Feb. 11, 2021), at 15, fig. 7, https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/redistricting-
landscape-2021-22.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In the leadup to the current districting cycle, Brennan Center 
districting expert Michael Li issued a report citing the loss of 
Section 5 and narrowing of Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act to warn 
that in substantial parts of the country ``there may be even greater 
room for unfair processes and results than in 2011, when the Nation saw 
some of the most gerrymandered and racially discriminatory maps in its 
history.''\81\ So far, unfortunately, his predictions have largely 
borne out. In late November, Li noted that ``[c]ommunities of color are 
bearing the brunt of aggressive map drawing,'' citing Illinois, North 
Carolina, and Texas as examples.\82\ In Texas, ``communities of color 
accounted for 95% of the State's population growth last decade. Yet, 
not only did Texas Republicans create no new electoral opportunities 
for minority community communities, but their maps also often went 
backwards.''\83\ The pattern has continued--so much so that Li noted in 
mid-January that ``[p]people of color are getting shellacked in 
redistricting'' this cycle.\84\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \81\ Id. at 3.
    \82\ Michael C. Li, Early Lessons from the Current Redistricting 
Round, BRENNAN CENTER FOR JUSTICE (Nov. 30, 2021), https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/analysis-opinion/early-lessons-current-
redistricting-round.
    \83\ Id.
    \84\ Michael Li (@mcpli), Twitter (Jan. 13, 2022, 2:33 PM), https:/
/twitter.com/mcpli/status/1481711130020130816.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    A December 2021 New York Times article detailed how white lawmakers 
are systematically driving Black elected officials from positions of 
power by carving up their districts and at times forcing them to run 
against other incumbents.\85\ The article cites at least two dozen 
examples, including former Congressional Black Caucus chair G.K. 
Butterfield of North Carolina, who is retiring as a result and called 
the situation a ``five-alarm fire.''\86\ \87\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \85\ Nick Corasaniti & Reid J. Epstein, Map by Map, G.O.P. Chips 
Away at Black Democrats' Power, THE N.Y. TIMES (Dec. 18, 2021), https:/
/www.nytimes.com/2021/12/18/us/politics/gop-gerrymandering-black-
democrats.html.
    \86\ Id.
    \87\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    LDF has brought lawsuits challenging the anti-voter laws and the 
unfair redistricting maps in several States; and our allies are suing 
in many others. For example, 6 of the 9 States formerly covered by 
Section 5 have completed at least some of their post-Census districting 
maps, and in 5 of these 6 States at least one map (and often more than 
one) is being challenged in lawsuits alleging racial 
discrimination.\88\ Had the Supreme Court not gutted the heart of the 
Voting Rights Act in 2013 by rendering inoperable the requirement that 
jurisdictions with histories of voting discrimination ``preclear'' 
voting changes before they take hold, many of the restrictive voting 
laws passed in 2021 would not have gone into effect. Five of the 19 
States that passed restrictive laws were fully covered by the VRA's 
preclearance provisions.\89\ Now affected voters are forced to push 
back piecemeal, using the Constitution's protections against 
intentional vote discrimination and the Voting Rights Act's remaining 
protections against discriminatory impact.\90\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \88\ Redistricting Across States, ALL ABOUT REDISTRICTING, https://
redistricting.lls.edu/ (accessed Jan. 18, 2022).
    \89\ See U.S. DEP'T OF JUSTICE, Jurisdictions Previously Covered by 
Section 5, https://www.justice.gov/crt/jurisdictions-previously-
covered-section-5; Resource: Voting Laws Roundup: December 2021, supra 
n. 70.
    \90\ 594 U.S. (2021).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    LDF is currently litigating cases against 2021 voter suppression 
laws in Georgia, Florida, and Texas; and discriminatory redistricting 
plans in Alabama, South Carolina, and Louisiana. This litigation is an 
important but limited tool to protect Black and Brown Americans' right 
to vote. Voting rights litigation can be slow and expensive, often 
costing parties millions of dollars.\91\ The cases also expend 
significant judicial resources.\92\ Additionally, the average length of 
Section 2 cases is 2 to 5 years.\93\ In the years during a case's 
pendency, thousands--and, in some cases, millions--of voters are 
effectively disenfranchised.\94\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \91\ The Cost (in Time, Money, and Burden) of Section 2 of the 
Voting Rights Act Litigation1 NAACP LDF (Feb. 19, 2021), https://
www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/Section-2-costs-2.19.21.pdf.
    \92\ Federal Judicial Center, 2003-2004 District Court Case-
Weighting Study, Table 1 (2005) (finding that voting cases consume the 
sixth most judicial resources out of 63 types of cases analyzed).
    \93\ Voting Rights Act: Section 5 of the Act--History, Scope, and 
Purpose: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on the Constitution of the H. 
Comm. on the Judiciary, 109th Cong. 92 (2005) (``Two to 5 years is a 
rough average'' for the length of Section 2 lawsuits).
    \94\ See e.g., Veasey v. Abbott, No. 20-40428 (5th Cir. Sept. 3, 
2021), available at https://www.ca5.uscourts.gov/opinions/pub/20/20-
40428-CV0.pdf (upholding grant of $6,790,333.31 in attorneys' fees).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The details of these cases (described in chronological order below) 
show that these laws are targeted at pushing back on strong 2020 
turnout among voters of color and are clearly part of the backlash 
unleashed through false narratives about voter fraud. These cases have 
survived multiple attempts to block aggrieved voters from having their 
day in court--such as motions to dismiss or for summary judgment--and 
two of them have already resulted in victories for Black voters at the 
trial court level. In January, a three-judge panel ordered Alabama to 
draw new Congressional maps that give Black voters a fair opportunity 
to elect their preferred candidates (this ruling was put on hold by the 
Supreme Court).\95\ A Federal judge in March struck down Florida's 
voter suppression law and ruled that it was the product of intentional 
racial discrimination.\96\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \95\ 21A375 Merrill v. Milligan 595 U. S. (2022). Available at 
https://www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/
order_supreme_court_alabama_case_2_7_2022.pdf.
    \96\ League of Women Voters of Fla. Inc. v. Lee, 4:21cv186-MW/MAF 
(N.D. Fla. Mar. 31, 2022).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
            a. Georgia
    In addition to being the most visible place Black voters asserted 
power in 2020, Georgia has seen significant population growth among 
people of color over the last decade. According to the U.S. Census 
Bureau, the State's diversity index jumped several points over the past 
decade, and Georgia jumped two slots to become the ninth most diverse 
State in the Nation.\97\ This made the Peach State especially 
vulnerable to the false fraud frame. In fact, Georgia wasted no time 
translating the backlash against the rising voices of voters of color 
into legislative action to restrict the franchise. On January 7, 2021--
two days after the run-off election, and the day after the 
Insurrection--Georgia House Speaker David Ralston announced the 
creation of a Special Committee on Election Integrity (``EIC'') and by 
early February, Georgia legislators had filed sweeping legislation to 
limit early and absentee voting.\98\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \97\ Racial and Ethnic Diversity in the United States: 2010 Census 
and 2020 Census, U.S. Census Bureau (Aug. 12, 2021), https://
www.census.gov/library/visualizations/interactive/racial-and-ethnic-
diversity-in-the-united-States-2010-and-2020-census.html.
    \98\ Stephen Fowler, Sweeping Elections Bill To Limit Early And 
Absentee Voting, NPR (Feb. 19, 2021), https://www.npr.org/2021/02/19/
969497398/georgia-republicans-file-sweeping-elections-bill-to-limit-
early-and-absentee-vot.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    LDF, jointly with the Southern Poverty Law Center (``SPLC''), 
provided oral and written testimony throughout the legislative session 
to oppose omnibus bills restricting access to the right to vote, 
explaining that these bills would disproportionately harm low-income 
voters and voters of color.\99\ Yet, the Georgia General Assembly 
refused to conduct any racial-impact study of legislation that would 
carry forward the State's troubling history of voting 
discrimination.\100\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \99\ LDF and SPLC Action Fund Submit Testimony Opposing Georgia's 
S.B. 202, NAACP LDF (Mar. 18, 2021), https://www.naacpldf.org/news/ldf-
and-splc-action-fund-submit-testimony-opposing-georgias-s-b-202/.
    \100\ Since the 2013 Shelby decision, the State of Georgia has 
enacted voting restrictions across five major categories studied by the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights: Voter identification requirements, 
documentary proof of citizenship requirements, voter purges, cuts to 
early voting, and polling place closures or relocations. Democracy 
Diminished, NAACP LDF (Oct. 6, 2021), at 25-32, https://
www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/Democracy-Diminished_10.06.2021-
Final.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    On March 17, 2021, with little notice to EIC members, and members 
of the public, an EIC member introduced a substitute bill to Senate 
Bill 202 (``S.B. 202''), which expanded the legislation from 3 pages to 
over 90 pages just hours before a full hearing. With limited 
opportunity for meaningful engagement and review, the EIC rushed S.B. 
202 through additional hearings. On March 25, 2021, the House and 
Senate passed S.B. 202, and the Governor signed it into law during a 
closed-door session.\101\ One of the most restrictive voting laws of 
recent years, S.B. 202: (1) Severely limits mobile voting; (2) imposes 
new identification requirements for requesting and casting an absentee 
ballot; (3) delays and compresses the time period for requesting 
absentee ballots; (4) imposes new restrictions on secure drop boxes; 
(5) implements out-of-precinct provisional ballot disqualification; (6) 
drastically reduces early voting in run-off elections; and (7) 
criminalizes the provision of food and water to voters waiting in line 
to cast a ballot.\102\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \101\ Stephen Fowler, ``Georgia Governor Signs Election Overhaul, 
Includes Changes to Absentee Voting,'' NPR (Mar. 25, 2021), https://
www.npr.org/2021/03/25/981357583/georgia-legislature-approves-election-
overhaul-including-changes-to-absentee-vot.
    \102\ Civil Rights Groups Sue Georgia Over New Sweeping Voter 
Suppression Law NAACP LDF (Mar. 30, 2021), https://www.naacpldf.org/
press-release/civil-rights-groups-sue-georgia-over-new-sweeping-voter-
suppression-law/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    On March 30, 2021, LDF, along with allies, filed a lawsuit, later 
amended, in the Northern District of Georgia, which challenges S.B. 202 
on behalf of several groups including the Sixth District of the African 
Methodist Episcopal Church, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc, Georgia 
ADAPT, Georgia Advocacy Office, and the Southern Christian Leadership 
Conference.\103\ The lawsuit raises several claims including racial 
discrimination in violation of the VRA and the Fourteenth and Fifteenth 
Amendments; an unconstitutional burden on the right to vote under the 
First and Fourteenth Amendments; an unconstitutional burden on the 
right to freedom of speech and expression under the First Amendment; 
discrimination on the basis of disability under Title II of the 
American Disabilities Act, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 
1973, and a violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964's prohibition on 
immaterial requirements to voting.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \103\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In the 2022 legislative session, Georgia lawmakers picked up where 
they left off last year. After promising no further major election 
changes, the Georgia House nonetheless pushed through a package that 
sought to give the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) original 
jurisdiction to investigate nonexistent election crimes; reduce the 
number of voting machines required on Election Day; and increase 
mandates on elections officials without corresponding resources.\104\ 
After strong pushback from elections officials and the voting rights 
community, the legislature removed most of the anti-voter provisions, 
but did pass legislation that threatens to intimidate voters by 
involving the GBI directly in elections.\105\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \104\ GA HB1464. Regular Session 2021-2022, (Mar. 30, 2022).
    \105\ Cami Mondeaux, Georgia lawmakers pass bill giving GBI power 
to investigate voter fraud, Washington Examiner (Apr. 5, 2022), https:/
/www.washingtonexaminer.com/politics/georgia-lawmakers-pass-bill-
giving-gbi-power-to-investigate-voter-fraud.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
            b. Florida
    Florida, which also grew more diverse in the last decade,\106\ was 
not far behind Georgia in channeling the false fraud claims and 
resulting backlash into new voting restrictions. On May 6, 2021, 
Governor DeSantis signed into law a broad voter suppression bill known 
as S.B. 90.\107\ The same day LDF filed a lawsuit on behalf of the 
Florida State Conference of the NAACP, Disability Rights Florida, and 
Common Cause against the Florida Secretary of State, challenging 
multiple provisions of the bill including: (1) Restrictions and new 
requirements for VBM applications; (2) limitations on where, when, and 
how drop boxes can be used; and (3) a vague and overbroad prohibition 
on conduct near polling places, including potentially criminalizing 
offering free food, water, and other relief to Florida voters waiting 
in long lines.\108\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \106\ Racial and Ethnic Diversity in the United States supra note 
106.
    \107\ Gov. DeSantis Signs GOP-Backed Elections Bill at Event Closed 
to Local Media, ASSOCIATED PRESS (May 6, 2021), https://
www.nbcmiami.com/news/local/gov-desantis-signs-gop-backed-elections-
bill/2444871/.
    \108\ Important Facts About LDF's Lawsuit Challenging Florida's New 
Voting Law, NAACP LDF (accessed Jan. 19, 2022), https://
www.naacpldf.org/naacp-publications/ldf-blog/important-facts-about-
ldfs-lawsuit-challenging-floridas-new-voting-law/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    On October 8, 2021, Chief Judge Mark E. Walker denied the Secretary 
of State's motion to dismiss with respect to most of our claims, noting 
that the allegations of intentional discrimination in our complaint 
drew a ``a straight, shameful line from the discriminatory laws of the 
1880's to today.''\109\ Judge Walker then struck down S.B. 90 in March 
of this year, ruling that the law violates Section 2 of the Voting 
Rights Act, and the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the U.S. 
Constitution.\110\ Because the district court found that the Florida 
legislature intentionally discriminated against Black voters through 
its enactment of S.B. 90, the court granted the Plaintiffs' request for 
bail-in relief, thereby retaining jurisdiction in the matter for 10 
years and prohibiting Florida from enacting certain voting changes 
without pre-approval.\111\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \109\ Order on Motion to Dismiss at 52, Florida State Conference of 
the NAACP et. al. v. Laurel Lee, No. 4:21-cv001-87-MW-MAF (N.D. Fla 10/
8/21), ECF No. 249.
    \110\ https://www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/FINAL-ORDER-
SB90.pdf.
    \111\ Id. at 136.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In reaching its finding of intentional discrimination, the Court 
pointed to decades of troubling history, noting that ``[a]t some point, 
when the Florida Legislature passes law after law disproportionately 
burdening Black voters, this Court can no longer accept that the effect 
is incidental.''\112\ It also discussed the specific context of the 
2020 election and how S.B. 90 was framed in response. After noting a 
surge in vote-by-mail participation, high turnout generally, and the 
fact that by all accounts the election was conducted without major 
security concerns, the court referenced the National climate and 
Florida's response, making an explicit connection to the January 6th 
Insurrection:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \112\ Id. at 64.

``While Florida's election went smoothly, this Court cannot ignore 
reality. The 2020 election and its aftermath, on a national scale, was 
chaotic, though scant evidence was presented on this issue. Between the 
2020 election and SB 90's introduction, then-President Trump refused to 
acknowledge that he had lost the election, causing an escalating crisis 
that culminated in a mob storming the United States Capitol on January 
6, 2021. This is not determinative, but this Court cannot evaluate the 
Legislature's actions without at least acknowledging these events. 
Indeed, the [election] Supervisors' lobbyist, David Ramba, testified 
that considering ``all of the things that were on the national news and 
who stole what and everything else, we knew that somebody was going to 
come up with a piece of legislation.''
``As Mr. Ramba expected, in the first legislative session after the 
2020 election, the Legislature, through SB 90, made a sweeping set of 
changes to Florida's election code, with a specific focus on VBM. For 
context, between 2013 and 2020 the Legislature made no changes to VBM. 
And the exact justification for SB 90 as a whole, and for its 
constituent parts, is difficult to pin down, with sponsors and 
supporters offering conflicting or nonsensical rationales. Indeed, as 
Senator Farmer testified, the rationale for SB 90 ``was perhaps the 
most [elusive] answer we faced.'' . . . Nor was there any evidence 
before the Legislature that fraud is even a marginal issue in Florida 
elections.\113\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \113\ Id. at 68-70 (internal citations omitted).

    Judge Walker's careful 288-page opinion makes clear that Florida 
legislators used false claims of voter fraud as a pretext to enact 
legislation they knew would suppress the Black vote, in direct response 
to robust 2020 turnout.
            c. Texas
    Texas is another State that experienced substantial population 
shifts since 2010. On September 7, 2021, Governor Abbott of Texas 
signed S.B. 1, one of the most restrictive voting laws in the country. 
As the bill advanced, members and witnesses who raised concerns--and 
evidence--that the bill would harm voters of color and voters with 
disabilities were largely ignored or chastised for uttering the word 
``racism'' in the debate. Texas House Democrats staged a walkout and 
eventually left the State to break quorum and prevent the passage of 
such a damaging bill. But proponents of the omnibus election bill 
rammed it through the legislative process, which the Governor extended 
by two special sessions and threatened funding of legislative staff 
salaries in order to force passage of the bill.\114\ After submitting 
testimony and advocating against the bill as it made its way through 
the Texas legislature, LDF filed a lawsuit challenging S.B. 1 on the 
same day it was signed into law.\115\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \114\ Heidi Perez-Moreno, 2,100 State Workers Caught in the 
Crosshairs of Gov. Greg Abbott's Veto of Legislature Funding, THE TEXAS 
TRIBUNE (July 2, 2021), https://www.texastribune.org/2021/07/02/greg-
abbott-veto-legislature-staffers/.
    \115\ Our lawsuit is 1 of 6 challenging S.B. 1 that have been 
consolidated under La Union del Pueblo Entero v. State of Texas, No. 
5:21-cv-00844 (W.D. Tex.), including a case brought by the U.S. 
Department of Justice.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The passage of S.B. 1 was a direct backlash to the record voter 
turnout in Texas in the 2020 election cycle and in particular, the 
power that Black and Brown voters exercised at the polls. Expanded 
early voting, drive-thru voting, and 24-hour voting facilitated this 
record-high voter participation, particularly for urban voters of color 
who were more likely to use these means of access. For example, 
approximately 1.6 million registered voters in Harris County: 1.3 
million voted early in person; over 177,000 voted by mail; and over 
200,000 voted on Election Day.\116\ S.B. 1 targeted the means and 
methods of voting primarily used by Black and Brown voters that had 
facilitated a smooth, secure, and accessible election. Among its many 
restrictions,S.B. 1 eliminates drive-thru voting and 24-hour voting, 
restricts early voting hours, restricts vote-by-mail opportunities and 
application distribution, and bans drop boxes--innovations that had 
given local counties the options and flexibility they needed to help 
eligible voters of all backgrounds and abilities cast a ballot, and 
that Black and Brown voters had disproportionately relied on to vote. 
S.B. 1 also imposes burdens and intrusive documentation requirements on 
individuals who provide voters assistance or transport voters to the 
polls, those providing such assistance to the threat of criminal 
penalties for violations. Finally, by making it harder for election 
officials to regulate and supervise poll watchers, S.B. 1 empowers 
partisan poll watchers to interfere with election administration and to 
intimidate and harass voters at the polls.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \116\ Harris County Elections, Election Results Archive, Canvass 
Report: Nov Live 110320 General and Special Elections, (Nov. 16, 2020), 
https://www.harrisvotes.com/HISTORY/20201103/Official%20Canvass.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    S.B. 1 has already caused substantial problems in Texas' March 1 
primary election, where counties were forced to reject a huge 
percentage of vote-by-mail applications.\117\ One hundred eighty-seven 
of Texas' 254 counties threw out 22,898 duly cast vote by mail 
ballots--approximately 13% of all ballots cast during primary vs. 1-2% 
rejected in previous elections.\118\ The rejection rate in the most 
populous counties was roughly 15%, a staggering increase from the 2020 
election, where the State-wide rejection rate was roughly 1%.\119\ The 
unprecedented vote-by-mail rejections seems to have a disproportionate 
impact on minority voters across the State. In particular, 6 of the 9 
zip codes in Harris County with the most ballot rejections were 
majority Black.\120\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \117\ Alexa Ura, Hundreds of Mail-in Ballot Applications are Being 
Rejected Under Texas' New Voting Rules, THE TEXAS TRIBUNE (Jan. 13, 
2022), https://www.texastribune.org/2022/01/13/texas-voting-mail- 
rejections/?utm--source=Texas+Tribune+Newsletters&utm--
campaign=22dff95b59- trib-newsletters-top-story-
alert&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_d9a68d8efc-22dff95b59- 
101201265&mc_cid=22dff95b59.
    \118\ Ross Ramsey, Analysis: When 1 in 8 Texas mail ballots gets 
trashed, that's vote suppression, Texas Tribune (Mar. 18, 2022), 
https://www.texastribune.org/2022/03/18/texas-rejected-election-
ballots/.
    \119\ Nick Corasaniti, Mail Ballot Rejections Surge in Texas, With 
Signs of a Race Gap, New York Times (Mar. 18, 2022), https://
www.nytimes.com/2022/03/18/us/politics/texas-primary-ballot-
rejections.html.
    \120\ Nick Corasaniti supra n. 128.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    S.B. 1 has made it more difficult for voters to cast ballots, 
stifled innovation, undermined trust in our democracy, and chipped away 
at voluntary participation as election workers by making the job more 
difficult while adding criminal penalties for the job.
    In our lawsuit, LDF, along with our co-counsel from The Arc and 
Reed Smith, argues that S.B. 1 discriminates against Black and Brown 
voters and burdens voters with disabilities in violation of the First 
and Fourteenth Amendments, Sections 2 and 208 of the Voting Rights Act, 
the Americans with Disabilities Act, and Section 504 of the 
Rehabilitation Act.\121\ We represent Houston Justice, the Houston Area 
Urban League, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., and The Arc of Texas, 
organizations that have long worked to ensure Black and Brown voters, 
incarcerated voters, and voters with disabilities can access the 
franchise through providing voter education and voter assistance. 
Largely through volunteer efforts, these groups help vulnerable 
communities make their voices heard through the ballot box, for example 
by educating voters about their voting method options and election 
rules, providing transportation to the polls, distributing, and 
assisting with the completion of vote-by-mail applications, and helping 
voters with disabilities navigate the voting process and complete their 
ballots.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \121\ Lawsuit Filed Challenging New Texas Law Targeting Voting 
Rights, NAACP LDF (Sept. 7, 2021), https://www.naacpldf.org/press-
release/lawsuit-filed-challenging-new-texas-law-targeting-voting-
rights/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    S.B. 1 frustrates the mission of our clients, placing obstacles, 
bans, and exposure to criminal prosecution in the way of their efforts 
to help marginalized communities vote. But the greatest loss is for 
Texas voters themselves who will be disenfranchised or burdened by the 
web of bans and restrictions erected by the law--Black and Brown voters 
and voters with disabilities who relied on the methods of voting now 
made illegal and who counted on engagement and assistance from groups 
like our clients to safely cast a ballot. In intent and effect, S.B. 1 
blocks their right to vote, continuing a shameful history of voter 
suppression in Texas.
            d. Alabama
    Alabama has played a special role in the Civil Rights Movement, due 
in significant part to its shameful history of racial discrimination in 
voting. In 1992, litigation forced Alabama to create a Congressional 
district that allowed Black voters a real opportunity to elect 
candidates of their choice.\122\ As a result, a Black Congressperson 
was elected from Alabama for the first time since Reconstruction.\123\ 
Yet outside of that one district, Black candidates continue to face 
defeat in Congressional elections, though many strong candidates have 
run and have attracted the support of the overwhelming majority of 
Black voters.\124\ Indeed, Alabama is one of only 10 States where no 
Black person has ever won State-wide elected office.\125\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \122\3Wesch v. Hunt, 785 F. Supp. 1491, 1498 (S.D. Ala. 1992), 
aff'd sub nom. Camp v. Wesch, 504 U.S. 902 (1992).
    \123\ Compl., Milligan v. Merrill, No. 2:21-cv--01530-AMM (N.D. 
Ala. Nov. 16, 2021), ECF No. 1 (``Milligan Compl.'').
    \124\ U.S. House of Representatives, Black-American Members by 
State and Territory, 1870-Present, https://history.house.gov/
Exhibitions-and-Publications/BAIC/Historical-Data/Black-American-
Representatives-and-Senators-by-State-and-Territory/ (last visited 
January 18, 2022).
    \125\ Summer Ballentine, Analysis: 10 States still haven't elected 
minority State-wide, ASSOCIATED PRESS (Sept. 3, 2016), https://
apnews.com/article/6d70082a5f854109aee7874e915c6631.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    For some time now, it has been possible to create two majority-
Black Congressional districts in Alabama.\126\ This is even more true 
now given that all of the State's population growth in the last decade 
was driven by people of color.\127\ As of the 2020 Census, non-Hispanic 
whites have fallen to 63% of the Alabama's population while Black 
Alabamians have grown to just over 27% of the population.\128\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \126\ Even in 1992, the Black population was large enough and 
geographically compact enough to create two majority-Black 
Congressional districts, but Black leaders at that time believed an 
effective electoral opportunity for Black voters required significantly 
more than a bare majority. Wesch, 785 F. Supp. at 1498.
    \127\ Alabama Population Grew 5.1% Since 2010, Surpassing 5 
Million, U.S. CENSUS BUREAU (Aug. 5, 2021), https://www.census.gov/
library/stories/state-by-state/alabama-population-change-between-
census-decade.html.
    \128\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Yet Alabama's white power structure has refused to contend with the 
State's growing diversity, preferring to maintain the status quo in a 
process that was anything but transparent. In September 2021, the 
State's Legislative Reapportionment Office held 28 public hearings, all 
but one of which were held during regular business hours when working 
Alabamians were unlikely to attend.\129\ Comments by the legislators 
overseeing the process indicated the outlines of the Congressional plan 
had already been decided before the public hearings, yet no draft map 
was released until after the public comment period had closed.\130\ And 
no changes were made to the plans in response to public input. 
Moreover, although civil rights advocates and Black State legislators 
asked for a racial polarization study before the legislature adopted a 
map that continued packing Black voters into a single Congressional 
district, no such study was ever done.\131\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \129\ Mike Cason, Alabama lawmakers begin task of drawing new 
political districts, al.com, (Aug. 31, 2021) https://www.al.com/news/
2021/08/alabama-lawmakers-begin-task-of-drawing-new-political-
districts.html.
    \130\ Id. (quoting State Senator Jim McClendon stating that ``there 
won't be any surprises'' in the new Congressional plan).
    \131\ Milligan Compl., supra n. 122,  50-71.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    On November 4, 2021, Alabama enacted a Congressional map under 
which Black Alabamians have a meaningful chance to see their preferred 
candidate elected in only one out of the State's 7 Congressional 
districts.\132\ In other words, Black Alabamians are more than 27% of 
the population, but are a majority--and have a realistic chance of 
electing their preferred representatives--in only 14% of the State's 
Congressional districts. In contrast, white Alabamians are 63% of the 
population but form a majority in nearly 86% of the Congressional 
districts. This is akin to one-person, half-a-vote for Black residents, 
and one-person, one-and-a-third votes for white residents.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \132\ See Stipulation of Facts, Milligan v. Merrill, No. 2:21-cv-
01530-AMM (N.D. Ala. 2021), ECF No. 53.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In November, after the State adopted a Congressional plan that 
continued the status quo, LDF sued on behalf of Greater Birmingham 
Ministries, the Alabama State Conference of the NAACP, and five 
affected voters, demanding that the State create a second district that 
gives Black Alabamians an equal chance to see their preferred 
candidates represent them in Congress.\133\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \133\ Milligan Compl., supra n. 135.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The lack of adequate representation in Congress has real 
consequences for Alabama's Black communities. Shalela Dowdy, a 
community organizer and captain in the U.S. Army Reserves who is one of 
the plaintiffs in LDF's Congressional redistricting litigation, 
explained how elected officials work against the needs of Alabamians in 
the State's Black Belt, who disproportionately lack access to health 
care.\134\ The region suffers from high rates of HIV and has been hit 
hard by COVID-19, regional hospitals have closed, doctors are often far 
away, and residents often cannot afford health insurance. Despite these 
serious issues affecting their constituents, many Alabama legislators 
have refused to support expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care 
Act.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \134\ Milligan Compl., supra n. 135.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The State legislative plan, adopted through the same problematic 
process as the Congressional plan, similarly distorts Black 
representation, and LDF has also challenged this plan. In January, a 
unanimous three-judge district court struck down Alabama's 
Congressional map and ordered the State legislature to draw a new map 
that complies with the Voting Rights Act by including two districts 
where Black voters have the opportunity to elect candidates of their 
choice.\135\ Unfortunately, the Supreme Court subsequently granted a 
motion to the stay the trial court's injunction of the maps, which 
means that the 2022 elections will take place under discriminatory maps 
and the underlying challenge to the maps will proceed next Term.\136\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \135\ Singleton v. Merrill, No. 2:21-cv-01291 (N. D. Ala.). 
Available at https://www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/PRELIMINARY-
INJUNCTION-MEMORANDUM-OPINION-AND-ORDER.-Signed-by-Judge-Anna-M-
Manasco-on-1_24_2022.-1.pdf.
    \136\ https://www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/
order_supreme_court_- alabama_case_2_7_2022.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
            e. South Carolina
    South Carolina has a long history of racial discrimination in 
voting and in the redistricting process in particular. During the four 
decades that the State was covered by the Voting Rights Act's 
preclearance protections, the Department of Justice objected 120 times 
to racially discriminatory voting changes, and at least 27 of these 
objections involved State or local redistricting plans.\137\ And, in 
every redistricting cycle since Congress enacted the VRA, voters have 
been forced to go into court to seek redress from discriminatory 
maps.\138\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \137\ First Amended Compl. for Inj. and Decl. Relief at 13, South 
Carolina State Conference of the NAACP v. McMaster, No. 3:21-cv-03302-
JMC-TJH-RMG (D.S.C. Dec. 23, 2021), ECF No. 84, available at https://
www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/AMENDED-PLAINT-for-injunctive-and-
declaratory-relief-against-JoAnne-Day-Clifford-J-Elder-002.pdf.
    \138\ Id.  43.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In October 2021, LDF first filed suit regarding post-2020 Census 
redistricting in the State on behalf of the South Carolina State 
Conference of the NAACP and an individual voter.\139\ Plaintiffs were 
forced to bring this initial complaint because of the South Carolina 
legislature's unnecessary delay in drawing new redistricting maps that 
respect the Constitutional one-person-one-vote principle. The 
legislature's failure to remedy malapportioned districts threatened to 
delay the process of drawing updated districts until the legislature 
was due back on January 11, 2022, which would have undermined the 
public's and courts' ability to evaluate the legality of new district 
lines before the March 30, 2022 filing deadline for primary 
elections.\140\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \139\ Compl. for Inj. and Decl. Relief, South Carolina State 
Conference of the NAACP v. McMaster, No. 3:21-cv-03302-JMC-TJH-RMG 
(D.S.C. Oct. 12, 2021), ECF No. 1, available at https://
www.naacpldf.org/wp-content/uploads/2021-10-12-SC-NAACP-v.-McMaster-
Malaportionment-Complaint-FINAL-FILE-STAMPED.pdf.
    \140\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The legislature did ultimately return to draw new State House and 
Senate districts before the end of 2021. South Carolina's map-drawing 
process was largely inaccessible and unresponsive to public input. In 
August and October 2021, LDF, South Carolina NAACP, ACLU, and other 
organizations sent letters to the House and Senate \141\ Committee 
expressing concern about the lack of transparency and proposing 
legislative and Congressional maps that would redress population 
disparities and create opportunities for Black voters to elect 
candidates of choice.\142\ The committees responsible for these maps 
repeatedly posted proposed plans with limited opportunities for 
meaningful review. As just one example, the House Committee invited 
public input on its draft State House map on November 10, which was 
posted less than 48 hours before the only public hearing it sought 
public testimony on the plan.\143\ The House Judiciary Committee 
subsequently amended and adopted this initial State House map with no 
opportunity for public input.\144\ The legislature also repeatedly 
discounted and ignored the public testimony that it did receive. And 
there is no indication that the legislature conducted a racially 
polarized voting analysis or any other analysis key to compliance with 
the Voting Rights Act despite repeated requests to do so.\145\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \141\ LDF Sends Letter to the South Carolina House Redistricting Ad 
Hoc Committee About their Obligations Under Section 2 of the Voting 
Rights Act and the Constitution, NAACP LDF (Aug. 9, 2021), https://
www.naacpldf.org/news/ldf-sends-letter-to-the-south-carolina-house-
redistricting-ad-hoc-committee-about-their-obligations-under-section-2-
of-the-voting-rights-act-and-the-constitution/; LDF Submits Proposed 
Congressional and Senate Redistricting Maps to the South Carolina 
Senate Judiciary Redistricting Subcommittee and the House Redistricting 
Ad Hoc Committee, NAACP LDF (Oct. 8, 2021), https://www.naacpldf.org/
press-release/ldf-submits-proposed-submitting-proposed-congressional-
and-senate-maps-to-the-south-carolina-senate-judiciary-redistricting-
subcommittee-and-the-house-redistricting-ad-hoc-committee/.
    \142\ Id.  70, 71.
    \143\ Id.  75.
    \144\ Id.  85-95.
    \145\ Id.  9.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ultimately, the legislature evaded their Constitutional obligations 
for redistricting. They did so by enacting State House and 
Congressional maps with districts that both ``pack'' and ``crack'' 
Black voters to dilute Black voting strength and opportunities for 
Black voters to elect candidates of their choice. But this result was 
not inevitable; the legislature had many alternative maps available to 
them that would have corrected for malapportionment, complied with 
Federal and State law considerations, and relevant redistricting 
criteria that the legislature adopted. Now, these maps are the latest 
examples of a decades-long pattern by the legislature of adopting 
discriminatory maps. LDF's current lawsuit provides an opportunity for 
Black South Carolinians to have a fair chance to elect State House and 
Congressional candidates who adequately represent their interests.
            f. Louisiana
    In Louisiana, which has the second-highest Black population of any 
State in the country, we are seeing the same pattern as in Alabama. In 
March, the State legislature passed redistricting plans that continue 
to pack Black Louisianans into a single Congressional district 
stretching from New Orleans to Baton Rouge and into many fewer State 
legislative districts than fairness and their numbers in the population 
demand.\146\ As in much of the South, voting in Louisiana remains 
stubbornly and starkly polarized along racial lines, with large 
majorities of white voters declining to support Black candidates. The 
result is that in districts in which white voters make up the majority, 
candidates supported by Black Louisianans do not succeed at the ballot 
box.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \146\ Letter to Louisiana Senate and House Governmental Affairs 
Committee, NAACP LDF (Oct. 18, 2021), https://www.naacpldf.org/wp-
content/uploads/2021.10.18-Letter-re-Louisiana-congressional-
Redistricting.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    According to the 2020 census, Louisiana's Black population has 
grown to more than 33% while the white population has fallen to 
57%.\147\ The legislature's Congressional plan, however, hands control 
of over 83% of the seats to white voters. A similar pattern holds in 
the redistricting plans for the Louisiana House of Representatives and 
Senate.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \147\ U.S. Census Bureau, LOUISIANA: 2020 Census (Aug. 25, 2021). 
Available at https://www.census.gov/library/stories/state-by-state/
louisiana-population-change-between-census-decade.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The legislature adopted these plans in the face of powerful 
community input demanding a greater voice for Black voters and despite 
the introduction of several alternative plans by members of the State's 
legislative Black caucus that would have created an additional seat in 
the Congressional plan. At least one of the alternative plans scored as 
well as or better than the plan the that was ultimately adopted on 
every measure the legislature purported to care about. The explanation 
from the legislature for their failure to consider these alternatives 
has been misinformation and, as in Alabama, unsupported claims that the 
Voting Rights Act requires a gerrymandered majority-Black district 
based in New Orleans that deprives Black voters of an equal opportunity 
to have their voices heard anywhere else in the State.
    On March 9, 2022, in response to sustained community advocacy, 
Governor John Bel Edwards vetoed the Congressional plan passed by the 
legislature because it failed to include a second majority-Black 
Congressional district. On March 30, 2022, the legislature voted to 
override the Governor's veto rather than attempt to craft a compromise 
plan that would provide greater voting opportunities to Black 
Louisianans. That this was the first time in nearly three decades that 
Louisiana has seen a successful veto override is a testament to the 
legislature's commitment to its refusal to share power with the State's 
rising Black population. Hours after the veto override vote, LDF filed 
suit under Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act challenging the 
Congressional plan.
                (a) Judicial Redistricting
    Black representation on Louisiana's Supreme Court is also under 
threat. Under a consent decree that resulted from a landmark decision 
in the case of Chisom v. Roemer, there is currently one member of the 
State supreme court who is elected from a majority-Black district.\148\ 
The State recently asked the Federal court to dissolve that decree and 
end Federal oversight under the pretext of a need to redistrict to 
correct population imbalances. The State's motion comes at a time when 
it faces pressure to add an additional majority-minority district and 
amid an effort to expand the size of the court from 7 to 9 members, 
which would further dilute the influence of Black voters on judicial 
elections.\149\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \148\ Chisom v. Roemer, 501 U.S. 380 (1991).
    \149\ See Allen v. Louisiana, 14 F.4th 366 (5th Cir. 2021).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                (b) Drawing Local Lines
    Congressional maps and State-wide plans are critical, but far from 
the only arena where fair districting is under attack. The one-person, 
one-vote principle requires thousands of jurisdictions across the 
country to redraw lines every decade--from county commissions and city 
councils to school boards. In the absence of preclearance, 
redistricting plans are being drawn that will affect the most intimate 
aspects of people's lives for a decade with no serious scrutiny or 
oversight. LDF lawyers, trainers, organizers, and policy staff have 
spent the past 6 months working to make sure that local communities 
have the tools they need to engage meaningfully in the process. Non-
profit organizations like LDF can fill some of the gap left by the 
Shelby County decision, but with no mandate that they affirmatively 
scrutinize and justify their redistricting plans, many localities are 
giving little heed to the requirements of the Voting Rights Act and the 
Fourteenth Amendment.
D. Backlash Beyond Election Day: Subverting Election Results
    The 2020 election and 2021 runoff taught entrenched interests that 
even in the face of formidable obstacles and deliberate barriers, Black 
and Brown voters can at times break through to make their voices heard. 
Given this lesson, we are now seeing bold and deliberate efforts to 
interfere with the voting infrastructure in ways that will facilitate 
the sabotage of elections or the subversion of election results. Two 
primary approaches are to provide more direct control over elections to 
partisan actors, and to replace nonpartisan, good-faith election 
workers with loyalists who strongly believe in the false narrative 
around stolen elections.
    In 2021, 32 laws were enacted in 17 States which allow State 
legislatures to politicize, criminalize election administration 
activity, or otherwise interfere with elections.\150\ These include 
measures to shift authority over elections from executive agencies or 
nonpartisan bodies to the legislature; roll back local authority 
through centralization and micromanagement; and criminalize good-faith 
mistakes or decisions by elections officials.\151\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \150\ Memorandum from States United Democracy Center, Protect 
Democracy, and Law Forward to Interested Parties (Dec. 23, 2021), at 2, 
https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/21169281/democracy-crisis-in-
the-making-report-update_12232021-year-end-numbers.pdf.
    \151\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    These new rules allow white-dominated legislatures or State-wide 
bodies to assert control over majority Black local jurisdictions. In 
Georgia, for example, another provision of S.B. 202 allowed the State 
Election Board to assume control of county boards.\152\ Through this 
bill and separate legislation to reorganize county election boards, 
several Black election board members or supervisors have been replaced 
with individuals closely aligned with a particular partisan 
ideology.\153\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \152\ James Oliphant & Nathan Layne, Georgia Republicans purge 
Black Democrats from county election boards, REUTERS (Dec. 9, 2021), 
https://www.reuters.com/world/us/georgia-republicans-purge-black-
democrats-county-election-boards-2021-12-09/.
    \153\ For example, H.B. 162 reconstituted the Morgan County Board 
of Elections, giving control over all appointments to the Board of 
County Commissioners, and leading directly to the removal of Helen 
Butler and Avery Jackson, two Black members Board members. Ms. Butler 
had served on the board for more than a decade without any allegations 
of wrongdoing and neglect, using her position to advocate for more 
accessible elections. Protecting the Freedom to Vote--Recent Changes to 
Georgia Voting Laws and the Need for Basic Federal Standards to Make 
Sure All Americans Can Vote in the Way that Works Best for Them, 
Hearing Before the S. Comm. On Rules and Admin, 117th Cong. 11 (2021) 
(Statement of Helen Butler, Exec. Dir., Ga. Coal. for the People's 
Agenda), https://www.rules.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/
Testimony_Butler.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Furthermore, criminalization provisions of legislation expose good-
faith election officials to unreasonable risk for doing their jobs. For 
example, Texas' S.B.1, contains a provision that exposes election 
judges who take action to prevent poll watchers from harassing voters 
to possible criminal sanctions.\154\ This despite the fact that the 
Texas Election Code contains specific provisions designed to protect 
voters from exactly such interference--and it is the election judge's 
responsibility to enforce these provisions at a given polling 
location.\155\ The new law thus puts good-faith election judges in a 
no-win situation where they can incur criminal penalties for fulfilling 
their duties.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \154\ Compl. for Decl. and Injunctive Relief, Houston Justice v. 
Abbott, No. 5:21-cv-00848 (W.D. Tex. Sept. 7, 2021), ECF No. 1.
    \155\ Tex. Election Code  33.057, 33.058.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Beyond legal changes, extremists who believe the 2020 election was 
stolen have subjected elections officials to death threats and other 
forms of harassment on an on-going basis. A November 2021 Reuters 
Special Report documented nearly 800 threats to election workers over 
the previous year, including more than 100 that could warrant 
prosecution.\156\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \156\ In June, an Arizona man called Secretary of State Katie 
Hobbs' office and left a messaging saying she would hang ``from a f----
tree . . . They're going to hang you for treason, you f----bitch.'' 
156[sic] In August 2021, a Utah man who had been listening to a Mesa 
County, Colorado election clerk criticize Secretary of State Jena 
Griswold sent Secretary Griswold a Facebook message: ``You raided an 
office. You broke the law. STOP USING YOUR TACTICS. STOP NOW. Watch 
your back. I KNOW WHERE YOU SLEEP, I SEE YOU SLEEPING. BE AFRAID, BE 
VERRY AFFRAID. I hope you die.'' Linda So & Jason Szep, Special Report: 
Reuters unmasks Trump supporters who terrified U.S. election workers, 
REUTERS (Nov. 9, 2021), https://www.reuters.com/legal/government/
reuters-unmasks-trump-supporters-terrifying-us-election-workers-2021-
11-09/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    According to an April 2021 survey, approximately one-third of 
election officials are concerned about feeling unsafe on the job, being 
harassed on the job, and/or facing pressure to certify election 
results.\157\ Nearly one-third have already felt unsafe and almost 20% 
have been threatened on the job.\158\ This has led to a wave of 
retirements, causing the director of the Center for Election Innovation 
and Research to tell the New York Times, ``We may lose a generation of 
professionalism and expertise in election administration. It's hard to 
measure the impact.''\159\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \157\ Brennan Center for Justice, Local Election Officials Survey 6 
(June 16, 2021), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-
reports/local-election-officials-survey.
    \158\ Id. at 7.
    \159\ Michael Wines, After a Nightmare Year, Election Officials Are 
Quitting, N.Y. TIMES (July 2, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/07/
02/us/politics/2020-election-voting-officials.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    This concern is almost certainly more acute for Black election 
officials and other election officials of color. Texas election judge 
and LDF client Jeffrey Clemmons, a Black man in his early twenties, 
says that if he works as an election worker again in the future:

    ``I am almost certain that I am going to face probably more 
harassment than I did the last time around because of the heightened 
political environment that we're in, where people feel again as if 
their elections are being stolen, that you know, democracy is being 
undermined left and right, which it is, but of course not in the way 
that they think that it is. And so you're going to have people who are 
signing up to be poll watchers for probably partisan campaigns and 
coming into polling places and attempting to identify election fraud as 
it were through the Texas election bills . . . I can only imagine 
things I'm going to face, whether it's someone, you know, yelling 
belligerently at me or taking video of me when I'm just doing my job or 
potentially having the cops called on me because of the color of my 
skin and the fact that I'm working an election.''\160\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \160\ Interview with Jeffrey Clemmons, supra note 77.

    The effort to subvert elections from the inside is picking up 
steam. With Black and Brown election workers pushed out of the picture, 
those who embrace the false fraud frame are waiting in the wings to 
infiltrate the system. According to the New York Times, ``[i]n races 
for State and county-level offices with direct oversight of elections, 
Republican candidates coming out of the Stop the Steal movement are 
running competitive campaigns, in which they enjoy a first-mover 
advantage in electoral contests that few partisans from either party 
thought much about before last November.''\161\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \161\ Charles Homans, In Bid for Control of Elections, Trump 
Loyalists Face Few Obstacles, N.Y. TIMES (Dec. 11, 2022), https://
www.nytimes.com/2021/12/11/us/politics/trust-in-elections-trump-
democracy.html?campaign--id=9&emc=edit_nn_- 20211213&instance_id=- 
47676&nl=the-morningi_id=67300419&segment_id=76841&te=1&user_id=- 
a026c13970046cd04a509ac0738ecf7a.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Secretary of state races have also been transformed by this 
phenomenon. Formerly about election mechanics or perhaps how much to 
expand voting opportunities these contests are now being driven by 
inaccurate claims regarding election legitimacy. In about half of this 
year's 27 secretary of state contests there's at least one candidate 
who claims the 2020 election was stolen from Donald Trump, or otherwise 
questions its legitimacy.\162\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \162\ `The Big Lie' Lives On, And May Lead Some to Oversee The Next 
Election, NPR (Jan. 6, 2022), https://www.npr.org/transcripts/
1070864361. Candidates have claimed that Georgia ``certified the wrong 
result'' and that ``700,000 people are illegal voters'' in the State; 
that Michigan added dead people to the voter file, while calling for an 
Arizona-style audit; that there were up to 35,000 ``fictitious voters'' 
in Pima County, Arizona; and that there was a group of secretary of 
state candidates ``doing something behind the scenes to try to fix 2020 
like President Trump said.'' Ian Vandewalker & Lawrence Norden, 
Financing of Races for Offices that Oversee Elections: January 2022, 
BRENNAN CENTER FOR JUSTICE (Jan. 12, 2022), at 15, fig. 7, https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/financing-races-
offices-oversee-elections-january-2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    With no pushback from Congress, those intent on subverting the next 
election by continuing to raise doubts about 2020 are becoming more 
brazen, not less. On January 15, President Trump held his first 2022 
rally in Florence, Arizona.\163\ Former Trump chief strategist Stephen 
Bannon explained that the purpose of the rally was to kick off an 
attempt to decertify President Biden's 2020 electors in 4 swing 
States.\164\ The explicit strategy was to sow distrust and paint 
President Biden as an illegitimate President.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \163\ Trump rally in Arizona: Former president calls Biden `a 
disaster' for the country, AZCENTRAL (Jan. 14, 2022), https://
www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/arizona/2022/01/14/trump-rally 
arizona-live-updates-florence/6529316001/.
    \164\ Ron Filipkowski (@RonFilipkowski), Twitter (Jan. 15, 2022, 
11:04 AM), https://twitter.com/RonFilipkowski/status/
1482383205181366278.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The combination of removing non-partisan or bipartisan election 
officials, exposing good-faith election workers to criminal penalties, 
and a constant stream of threats and harassment contributes to perhaps 
the most dangerous aspect of the efforts to subvert election results: 
Thousands of election officials with experience and integrity are being 
replaced by false fraud loyalists who are on a mission to achieve a 
particular election outcome without regard to whether that outcome 
aligns with the voice and intent of the majority of the electorate.
vi. solutions: congress has the power and responsibility to protect our 
                               democracy
    The U.S. Constitution gives Congress both the authority and the 
responsibility to act to protect our democracy. This Committee has been 
charged with the responsibility of diagnosing the root causes of the 
January 6th Insurrection and prescribing the solutions that can heal 
our ailing democracy. To do that work, it is critical that Congress 
view January 6th in its full context, and not as an isolated incident; 
only then does the full range of necessary solutions come into view. 
This includes legislation to protect the right to vote, especially for 
people of color; and to protect democracy from subversion.
A. Protect the Right to Vote
    The purpose of the raft of 2021 voter suppression laws, the 
discriminatory redistricting process, and the efforts to sabotage 
election results is to prevent people of color from ever again 
asserting their full voice and power. We need Congress to step up to 
its responsibility to ensure that we can achieve full and fair 
representation by passing legislation that protects the right to vote 
for Black and Brown Americans. Such legislation should, at a minimum, 
contain the following essential provisions:
   Restore the VRA's preclearance protections through updated 
        coverage parameters. Many of the States manipulating maps or 
        passing restricting voting laws--including the 6 States LDF is 
        suing--were covered by the Voting Rights Act's preclearance 
        protections prior to Shelby and would likely be covered again 
        under a restored Voting Rights Act. Preclearance in the new law 
        would start in 2021, so these laws would need to go through the 
        process and could be blocked from further effect.\165\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \165\ Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis Act, H.R. 5746, 117th Cong. 
(2021-2022)  9016(c).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Restore and strengthen Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act, 
        giving litigators across the country more powerful tools to 
        push back on discrimination. This includes clarifying the legal 
        standards for bringing Section 2 vote denial claims after the 
        Brnovich case, and that partisan motivation does not undercut a 
        claim of racial discrimination and establishing a new Nation-
        wide prohibition against diminishing the ability of voters of 
        color to access the ballot or elect candidates of choice.\166\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \166\ Id. at  9001-9002.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Provide a broad set of minimum standards for ballot 
        accessibility for Federal elections such that the ability to 
        exercise your right to vote is not dependent upon which State 
        you live in. States should be required to offer Same Day 
        Registration, robust early voting and vote-by-mail 
        opportunities, accept a broad range of voter identification, 
        make Election Day a holiday, implement automatic voter 
        registration, restore the vote to people with felony 
        convictions and more.\167\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \167\ Id. at  1031, 1202, 1301-1305, 1801.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Create a new Federal statutory claim against undue burdens 
        on the right to vote.* For harsh rules that restrict access 
        across the board, this can provide an alternative to First and 
        Fourteenth Amendment claims under the so-called Anderson-
        Burdick standard which has been weakened by the Supreme Court 
        and other courts in recent years. And in cases where laws place 
        disparate burdens on the rights of voters of color, low-income 
        voters, women, and others, a new claim can supplement Voting 
        Rights Act claims, which require extensive expert analysis and 
        statistical evidence to prove and increase the chances of 
        timely relief.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    * Id. at  3401-3403.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Outlaw partisan gerrymandering for Congressional 
        districts.\168\ This helps communities of color by undercutting 
        a key excuse lawmakers give for undermining their political 
        voice--it was about partisanship, not race \169\--and by 
        reducing the chances that leaders elected by these communities 
        are marginalized within the elected bodies in which they serve.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \168\ Id. at  5001-5008.
    \169\ See e.g. Michael Wines, ``Republican Gerrymander of North 
Carolina Maps is Upheld in Court,'' THE N.Y. TIMES (Jan. 11, 2022), 
https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/11/us/politics/north-carolina-
redistricting.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
B. Fight Election Subversion
    In addition to protecting the right to vote, Congress must take 
action to prevent subversion of our free and fair elections. This 
includes enacting explicit new protections for election workers and 
election infrastructure, as well as a provision that prevents partisan 
bodies such as State legislatures from removing State and local 
election officials without due cause.\170\ Congress must also update 
the Electoral Count Act of 1887 to fix the vague and outdated vote 
counting and election certification processes that provided an opening 
for bad-faith actors to attempt to subvert the will of the people by 
manipulating election results.\171\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \170\ Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis Act, H.R. 5746, 117th Cong. 
(2021-2022)  3001-3301.
    \171\ Discussion Draft ``Electoral Count Modernization Act,'' 
available at https://www.king.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/
mcg22051.pdf.pdf, is one such proposal.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Reform of the Electoral Count Act is far from sufficient to address 
the multitude of threats to ensuring free and fair democratic elections 
facing the Nation today but it is a needed component.
                            vii. conclusion
    This Select Committee does its work at a historic moment when it is 
not hyperbole to say that the fate of American democracy hangs in the 
balance. Black and Brown Americans face the greatest assault on our 
voting rights since the Jim Crow Black Codes rolled back the progress 
made during Reconstruction. Indeed, the threat of our democracy 
breaking apart at the seams and sliding irreversibly into 
authoritarianism has not been as acute since the Civil War.
    The recent Census confirmed that the Country is growing more 
diverse by the day and the great question before us is whether we will 
embrace a truly inclusive, multiracial democracy or entrench a racial 
hierarchy of white supremacy that has beleaguered our democracy since 
its inception.
    When NPR asked University of Southern California election scholar 
Franita Tolson to rank her concern about our democracy as a whole and 
the trend of false fraud narrative adherents taking over election 
offices in particular on a scale from one-to-ten, her response was a 
resounding 50.\172\ In April, respected election law scholar Richard L. 
Hasen wrote in the Harvard Law Review that ``[t]he United States faces 
a serious risk that the 2024 Presidential election, and other future 
U.S. elections, will not be conducted fairly and that the candidates 
taking office will not reflect the free choices made by eligible voters 
under previously announced election rules.''\173\ I believe the threat 
to our democracy is even more urgent than this. If people of color are 
blocked from the ballot or the vote is subverted in 2022, it may be too 
late to steer our democracy back on course.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \172\ `The Big Lie', supra n. 165.
    \173\ Richard L. Hansen, Identifying and Minimizing the Risk of 
Election Subversion and Stolen Elections in the Contemporary United 
States (Sep. 18, 2021). Harvard Law Review Forum, Vol.135, 2022, UC 
Irvine School of Law Research Paper No. 2021-50, Available at SSRN: 
https://ssrn.com/abstract=3926381. see also Barton Gellman, Trump's 
Next Coup Has Already Begun, THE ATLANTIC (Dec. 6, 2021), https://
www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2022/01/january-6-insurrection-
trump-coup-2024-election/620843/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Historians will study the period between 2020 and 2025 for decades 
to come, seeking to explain the next century of American life. They 
will ask the question: Did we act when we had the chance, or did we 
squander our last, best hope to protect the freedom to vote and save 
our democracy? Black Americans have played a special role in our 
country's history in calling the Nation to honor its highest ideals. 
And, we have been raising alarm bells about the descent of our 
democracy for years.\174\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \174\ Lani Guinier & Gerald Torres, The Miner's Canary, Harvard 
University Press (2003).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    January 6th was not an isolated incident, but rather the 
unfortunate consequence of powerful interests fomenting a backlash to 
the 2020 elections. Those interests are determined to block the 
emergence of an inclusive, multi-racial democracy by erecting barriers 
to the ballot and by dismantling the non-partisan election 
infrastructure. Securing and protecting the freedom to vote and the 
integrity of our elections are essential to maintaining our still 
nascent democracy. Congress must act swiftly to do so before our 
democracy is unrecognizable, if it exists at all.
                                 ______
                                 
   Statement of Trevor Potter, Founder and President, Campaign Legal 
                                 Center
                             April 1, 2022
    Thank you for the opportunity to submit testimony before the Select 
Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
Capitol. I am the founder and president of Campaign Legal Center (CLC), 
a nonpartisan 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to advancing American 
democracy through law. I am also a Republican former commissioner and 
chair of the Federal Election Commission, and served as general counsel 
to John McCain's 2000 and 2008 Presidential campaigns and deputy 
general counsel to President George H. W. Bush's 1988 Presidential 
campaign.
    American democracy stands at a perilous crossroads: Will it remain 
a country based on the rule of law and of truth, or fall to hidden 
manipulation and deception, and will the peaceful struggle to ensure 
representative self-government prevail over the fight for raw power? 
This Select Committee's urgent work to investigate the sources of what 
ails our political process and fueled the unprecedented attack on our 
Capitol is critical to begin reinforcing America's founding democratic 
ideals as a Nation of integrity and freedom.
    I testify before you to emphasize the threat that persistent lies 
about an allegedly ``stolen election'' present to our democratic 
institutions. The fiction that the voting and counting in the 2020 
election was in any form illegitimate has been thoroughly debunked in 
court proceedings across the country, in experts' analyses, and by the 
hardworking officials who oversaw the election. Nonetheless, the stolen 
election lies have persisted, creating a dangerous ecosystem in which 
contrived emergencies degrade public trust in elections, which is then 
used to justify changes in policy and law that impose real harms on our 
voting processes and the people who administer them.
    The emerging threats to our democratic processes that I want to 
address here manifest in four main categories: The increasing number of 
proposed State bills and enacted laws that cynically limit eligible 
voters' access to the ballot; the proliferation of ad hoc, partisan 
reviews of election results; the widening of cracks in our legal 
framework that can be exploited by rogue actors to usurp the electoral 
power from the people; and the alarming increase of threats against 
election officials and the politicization of their roles. These efforts 
to cast doubt on our electoral system have led to a startling loss of 
trust in the American political system that will take concerted efforts 
to restore.
    Although these problems are significant, I am confident they are 
solvable. The public's faith in the truth and in our democracy can 
overcome these difficult times. The Federal Government must help the 
truth prevail by enacting and enforcing laws that shore up our 
institutions and reduce the dangers imposed by the stolen election 
lies.
 a. stolen election lies lead to harmful voting restrictions, improper 
        government practices, and threats to election officials.
    Traditionally, the work of CLC and other voting rights and 
democracy reform organizations has emphasized combatting restrictions 
on the freedom to vote and improving voting access--from registration 
to the casting of ballots to the processing and tabulating stages. This 
work has taken on renewed importance in the face of the dramatic 
increase in State legislatures pushing bills that make it more 
difficult to vote for no good reason. But the nature of our work has 
also changed significantly since the post-election events that 
culminated on January 6, 2021. Now, democracy advocates must confront 
new hazards in the form of election sabotage and the politization of 
election administration that, along with pre-election restrictions of 
the franchise, can damage the integrity of the entire electoral system. 
Addressing these mounting concerns is critical to advancing democracy 
and protecting the freedom to vote.
    In this section of my testimony, I will briefly overview the stolen 
election lies that have escalated in recent years, and then will 
discuss in greater detail how those falsehoods have prompted real harms 
to voters, our democratic institutions, and the people who make our 
electoral system work.
    The election skeptics cast doubt on time-tested and widely-used 
programs that enable eligible voters to safely, conveniently, and 
securely exercise their freedom to vote--such as vote by mail, early 
voting, and accessible drop boxes--and have encouraged new laws that 
arbitrarily increase the costs of political participation. The 
falsehoods have led to partisan reviews of ballots and voting systems 
and have inspired new legislation that makes it easier for politicians 
to discard the expressed will of their voters. Distressingly, the lies 
endanger election officials with threats of violence, often forcing 
hardworking nonpartisan public servants out of their jobs and rousing 
highly partisan election conspiracists to try and replace them.
1. The stolen election lies are groundless and damaging.
    The proximate causes of the new subversive threats to American 
democracy are the widely dispersed lies that the 2020 Presidential 
election was ``stolen'', and that the winner is somehow illegitimate. 
Leading up to and since the 2020 election cycle, partisan actors have 
promoted the false narrative that there is wide-spread voter fraud in 
American elections and that their preferred candidates lose only 
because the other side cheated. Propagators of this conspiracy have 
used their stolen election lies to justify efforts to overturn the 
results of elections, to make voting harder, and to actually corrupt 
elections in the future.\1\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\ See, e.g., Nick Corasaniti & Reid J. Epstein, How Republican 
States Are Expanding Their Power over Elections, N.Y. Times (June 19, 
2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/19/us/politics/republican-
states.html; National Task Force on Election Crises, Undermining Free & 
Fair Elections: An Update on the Risk of Election Crises Since November 
2020 at 3 (July 14, 2021), https://static1.squarespace.com/static/
5e70e52c7c72720- ed714313f/t/60ecbb773b84fb5bce43c7fc/1626127223644/
Task+- Force+Progress+Report+%28July+2021%29.pdf; see also States 
United Democracy Ctr., Protect Democracy, and Law Forward, Democracy 
Crisis Report Update: New Data and Trends Show the Warning Signs Have 
Intensified in the Last Two Months (June 10, 2021), https://
statesuniteddemocracy.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Democracy-Crisis-
Part-II_June-10_Final_v7.pdf; States United Democracy Ctr., Protect 
Democracy, and Law Forward, A Democracy Crisis in the Making (Apr. 22, 
2021), https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/20688594/democracy-
crisis-report-april-21.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    For example, what started as on-line misinformation that voters in 
Arizona were being ``forced to use felt-tipped Sharpie pens'' that they 
wrongly believed voting machines would not count inspired the false 
allegation ``that thousands of Trump votes would be thrown out in 
Arizona'' and became part of a slew of election lies about the election 
results there.\2\ This simple lie, quickly demonstrated by nonpartisan 
election officials to be false, might have been comical if it were not 
so destructive. But the falsehoods about Sharpies and ballots went on 
to help generate frivolous lawsuits challenging Arizona's results,\3\ 
and led to armed protesters crowding outside a ballot-counting center 
calling for vote-counting to stop.\4\ The election conspiracies in 
Arizona further prompted prominent elected officials to submit a 
falsified slate of alternative Presidential electors to Congress 
contrary to the popular vote in that State, undertake a costly and 
damaging partisan review of the ballots in the State's largest county, 
and propose and enact changes to State election law that reduce voter 
access and needlessly increase election costs and complexity.\5\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\ Official Information Regarding the Use of Sharpies in Maricopa 
County, Citizens Clean Elections Comm'n, https://
www.azcleanelections.gov/election-security/sharpies (last accessed Mar. 
15, 2022); Rachel Leingang &McKenzie Sadeghi, Fact check: Arizona 
election departments confirm Sharpies can be used on ballots, USA Today 
(Nov. 5, 2022), https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/factcheck/2020/11/
04/fact-check-sharpiegate-controversy-arizona-false-claim/6164820002/.
    \3\ Jim Rutenberg, et al., 77 Days: Trump's Campaign to Subvert the 
Election, N.Y. Times (Jan 31, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/
31/us/trump-election-lie.html.
    \4\ Tony Romm, et al., Facebook Bans `STOP THE STEAL' Group Trump 
Allies Were Using to Organize Protests Against Vote Counting, Wash. 
Post (Nov. 5, 2020), https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2020/11/
05/facebook-trump-protests/.
    \5\ See States United Democracy Ctr. April and June Reports, supra 
note 1.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Other stolen election lies arose from partisans exploiting some 
voters' misperception that all the eligible ballots would be processed 
and counted by the end of election day, and that they could expect 
final results that night. The time line for when all votes are 
processed and counted is in part related to the volume of ballots that 
election officials must accurately canvass. But perceived delays to the 
time line are also directly related to whether State law allows 
election officials to preprocess early returned ballots to be ready to 
tabulate as soon as polls close.\6\ Nearly every State in the country 
enables its election officials to preprocess valid ballots that are 
returned before election day by, for example, simply removing the 
ballot from its envelope, flattening it, and stacking it with other 
ballots to be ready for tabulation after polls close.\7\ With millions 
of ballots to count, this preparation time adds up; preprocessing 
reduces the already significant strain on election day. States that 
limit or prohibit preprocessing--including closely contested States 
like Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin--prolonged the counting 
process, which stolen election lie believers exploited to sow doubt in 
the election.\8\ During this time, partisans used the delays they 
created in State law to promote their stolen election lies and pressure 
their constituents to launch ``stop the count'' movements that sought 
to distort election results by not tabulating lawful votes.\9\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \6\ See, e.g., Derek Tisler, et al., The Roadmap to the Official 
Count in an Unprecedented Election, Brennan Ctr. for Justice (Oct. 26, 
2020), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/roadmap-
official-count-unprecedented-election; Edward B. Foley & Charles 
Stewart III, Explaining the Blue Shift in Election Canvassing, J. of 
Pol. Institutions and Pol. Economy (Mar. 1, 2020), http://dx.doi.org/
10.2139/ssrn.3547734.
    \7\ See Table 16: When Absentee/Mail Ballot Processing and Counting 
Can Begin, Nat'l Conf. of State Legislatures (Mar. 15, 2022), https://
www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/vopp-table-16-when-
absentee-mail-ballot-processing-and-counting-can-begin.aspx; Quinn 
Scanlan, How battleground States process mail ballots--and why it may 
mean delayed results, ABC News (Oct. 30, 2020), https://abcnews.go.com/
Politics/battleground-states-process-mail-ballots-delayed-results/
story?id=73717671.
    \8\ See, e.g., Zach Montellaro, Michigan, Pennsylvania and 
Wisconsin decided the 2016 election. We'll have to wait on them in 
2020., Politico (Sept. 15, 2020), https://www.politico.com/news/2020/
09/15/swing-states-election-vote-count-michigan-pennsylvania-wisconsin-
414465; Miles Parks, In Swing States, Officials Struggle To Process 
Ballots Early Due To Strict Local Laws, NPR (Oct. 14, 2020), https://
www.npr.org/2020/10/14/922202497/in-swing-states-laws-add-pressure-
prevent-officials-from-processing-ballots-earl.
    \9\ See, e.g., Tresa Baldas, et al., Chaos erupts at TCF Center as 
Republican vote challengers cry foul in Detroit, Detroit Free Press 
(Nov. 4, 2020), https://www.freep.com/story/news/politics/elections/
2020/11/04/tcf-center-challengers-detroit-michigan/6164715002/; Jim 
Rutenberg et al., supra note 5.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The pressure campaign for partisans to subscribe to the stolen 
election lies has made the issue a National political litmus test for 
candidates across the country. During the height of the over 60 
frivolous litigation contests challenging the 2020 results, former 
President Trump undertook an unrelenting attack on the election by 
using his bully pulpit to publicly incite his supporters and to 
privately seek to coerce Federal and State officials to throw out the 
popular election.\10\ The lies spread on-line and on partisan media 
outlets, which were then promoted by hundreds of elected lawmakers who 
breached the public trust by magnifying the reach of these 
falsehoods.\11\ The rising threat of political violence from these lies 
prompted the incumbent National security and Federal law enforcement 
apparatus to reassure the public that the 2020 election was ``the most 
secure in American history'' with ``no evidence that any voting system 
deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or was in any way 
compromised''\12\ and no serious evidence of voter fraud.\13\ But the 
mistrust already sown meant many ``true believers'' believed these 
statements too were false. Since then, even some prominent proponents 
of the stolen election lies have admitted as a defense in court that 
``[n]o reasonable person would conclude that the statements 
[challenging the 2020 election] were truly statements of fact.''\14\ 
Nonetheless, the lies have continued, and are still believed by many.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \10\ Karen Yourish & Larry Buchanan, Since Election Day, a Lot of 
Tweeting and Not Much Else for Trump, N.Y. Times, Nov. 24, 2020, 
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/11/24/us/politics/trump-
twitter-tweets-election-results.html (``In total, the president 
attacked the legitimacy of the election more than 400 times since 
Election Day, though his claims of fraud have been widely debunked''); 
Anita Kumar & Gabby Orr, Inside Trump's Pressure Campaign to Overturn 
the Election, Politico (Dec. 21, 2020), www.politico.com/news/2020/12/
21/trump-pressure-campaign-overturn-election-449486 (``In total, the 
President talked to at least 31 Republicans, encompassing mostly local 
and State officials from four critical battleground States he lost--
Michigan, Arizona, Georgia, and Pennsylvania. The contacts included at 
least 12 personal phone calls to 11 individuals, and at least 4 White 
House meetings with 20 Republican State lawmakers, party leaders, and 
attorneys general, all people he hoped to win over to his side. Trump 
also spoke by phone about his efforts with numerous House Republicans 
and at least 3 current or incoming Senate Republicans.'').
    \11\ Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute, VoterFraud2020 Twitter 
Database, https://voterfraud2020.io/ (last visited Mar. 21, 2022); 
Justin Hendrix, The Big Lie Is a Reality, Just Security (Feb. 23, 
2022),https://www.justsecurity.org/80324/the-big-lie-is-a-reality/; 
Representative Zoe Lofgren, Social Media Review(Jan. 31, 2021), https:/
/housedocs.house.gov/lofgren/SocialMediaReview8.pdf.
    \12\ Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, Joint 
Statement From Elections Infrastructure Government Coordinating Council 
& The Election Infrastructure Sector Coordinating Executive Committees 
(Nov. 12, 2020), https://www.cisa.gov/news/2020/11/12/joint-statement-
elections-infrastructure-government-coordinating-council-election.
    \13\ Adam Goldman & Zolan Kanno-Youngs, F.B.I. Director Sees No 
Evidence of National Mail Voting Fraud Effort, N.Y. Times (Sept. 24, 
2020), https://www.nytimes.com/2020/09/24/us/politics/fbi-director-
voter-fraud.html (quoting FBI director Christopher Wray); Michael 
Balsamo, Disputing Trump, Barr says no widespread election fraud, 
Associated Press (Dec. 1, 2020), https://apnews.com/article/barr-no-
widespread-election-fraud-b1f1488796c9a98c4b1a9061a6c7f49d (quoting 
former Attorney General Bill Barr).
    \14\ Jane C. Timm, Sidney Powell's legal defense: `Reasonable 
people' wouldn't believe her election fraud claims, NBC News (Mar. 23, 
2021), https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/sidney-powell-s-
legal-defense-reasonable-people-wouldn-t-believe-n1261809 (citing 
Sidney Powell legal filing in a subsequent defamation case).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Our democratic institutions bent but ultimately held firm under the 
strain of the post-2020 election chaos that culminated with the January 
6 attack on the Capitol and challenges to the electors. But the damage 
done, and the weaknesses exploited during that time, have laid the 
groundwork for future attacks against and within our electoral system. 
The former President has kept the stolen election lies narrative at the 
forefront,\15\ and made a candidate's willingness to accept those 
falsehoods a salient political criterion in party politics.\16\ The 
fabricated stolen election efforts have shifted political dynamics 
across the country, with one recent analysis finding that ``163 
Republicans who have embraced Trump's false claims are running for 
State-wide positions that would give them authority over the 
administration of elections.''\17\ And numerous losing candidates for 
public office since the 2020 election have already harnessed the stolen 
election lies to cast doubt on their losses and the legitimacy of their 
opponents, no matter the margin of victory.\18\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \15\ See, e.g., Melissa Block, The clear and present danger of 
Trump's enduring `Big Lie', NPR (Dec. 23, 2021), https://www.npr.org/
2021/12/23/1065277246/trump-big-lie-jan-6-election; Josh Dawsey, Trump 
muses on war with Russia and praises Kim Jong Un, Wash. Post (Mar. 6, 
2022), https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2022/03/06/trump-focuses-
foreign-policy-speech-gops-top-donors/.
    \16\ Calvin Woodward, Trump's `Big Lie' imperils Republicans who 
don't embrace it, Associated Press (May 9, 2021), https://apnews.com/
article/michael-pence-donald-trump-election-2020-government-and-
politics-0c07947f9fd2b9911b3006f0fc128ffd.
    \17\ Ashley Parker, et al., How Republicans became the party of 
Trump's election lie after Jan. 6, Wash. Post (Jan. 5, 2022), https://
www.washingtonpost.com/politics/republicans-jan-6-election-lie/2022/01/
05/82f4cad4-6cb6-11ec-974b-d1c6de8b26b0_story.html.
    \18\ Numerous losing candidates have refused to concede because of 
trumped-up lies about voting fraud. For example, upon losing to 
Congresswoman Karen Bass of California, challenger Errol Webber echoed 
President Trump's rhetoric, tweeting, ``I will NOT concede. Every LEGAL 
vote needs to be counted!'' In Maryland, candidate Kimberly Klacik cast 
doubt on the validity of mail-in votes, writing, ``I beat my opponent 
on day of & in-person early voting, along with absentee. However, 97k 
mail-in ballots were found in his favor?'' See Teo Armus, Echoing 
Trump, Congressional Candidates Refuse to Concede, Make Unproven Fraud 
Claims, Wash. Post (Nov. 10, 2020), https://www.washingtonpost.com/
nation/2020/11/10/congress-trump-election-fraud-claim/; see also John 
L. Dorman, A Florida Republican who was defeated by 59 percentage 
points in a Congressional special election won't concede, Business 
Insider (Jan. 16, 2022), https://www.businessinsider.com/florida-
republican-mariner-wont-concede-cherfilus-mccormick-house-race-
landslide-2022-1.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    These stolen election lies cast a dangerous shadow extending well 
beyond 2020. Proponents of the lies continue to interrogate election 
officials and demand they prove a negative--that no distortions 
affected the elections--as a justification to continue repeating 
falsehoods about the voting system indefinitely.\19\ Researchers 
studying misinformation predict that such manipulations of the truth 
and the public trust will continue on ``for years or even 
decades.''\20\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \19\ Jane Mayer, The Big Money Behind the Big Lie, The New Yorker 
(Aug. 2, 2021), https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2021/08/09/the-big-
money-behind-the-big-lie.
    \20\ Brian Fung & Rishi Iyengar, Misinformation Channels Claim 
Biden Is No Longer President-elect. That's Not True., CNN (Nov. 11, 
2020), https://www.cnn.com/2020/11/10/tech/biden-lost-pennsylvania-
fact-check/index.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. The election falsehoods encourage laws that limit voter access.
    Even before the post-election chaos of 2020, early proponents of 
stolen election lies derided States that sought to make access to 
voting easier--during an unprecedented global pandemic--so their 
citizens could safely make their voices heard without putting their 
health in jeopardy.\21\ The focus of the attack became voting by mail, 
where eligible registered voters receive a mailed ballot to their home 
and can return their voted ballot before election day, often by return 
mail or by dropping it off at a designated location.\22\ This type of 
voting has been available for years in a range of States, with 
Colorado, Hawaii, Oregon, Washington, and Utah adopting a comprehensive 
vote by mail system before 2020 but still providing their citizens with 
alternative opportunities to vote in-person on election day.\23\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \21\ See, e.g., Miles Parks, Ignoring FBI And Fellow Republicans, 
Trump Continues Assault On Mail-In Voting, NPR (Aug. 28, 2020), https:/
/www.npr.org/2020/08/28/906676695/ignoring-fbi-and-fellow-republicans-
trump-continues-assault-on-mail-in-voting.
    \22\ See, e.g., Kimberly Hall, Vote-By-Mail and Absentee Voting--
Secure Alternatives to Cast Your Ballot in 2020, Campaign Legal Ctr. 
(Aug. 27, 2020), https://campaignlegal.org/update/vote-mail-and-
absentee-voting-secure-alternatives-cast-your-ballot-2020.
    \23\ Since 2020, three other States--California, Nevada, and 
Vermont--have also moved to a comprehensive vote-by-mail system. See 
Table 18: States With All-Mail Elections, Nat'l Conf. of State 
Legislatures (Feb. 3, 2022), https://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-
and-campaigns/vopp-table-18-states-with-all-mail-elections.aspx.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Despite the successful practices in these States, numerous studies 
showing vote by mail is safe and secure, and even many stolen election 
proponents themselves using that method to cast their own ballot, 
falsehoods about vote by mail took off in 2020.\24\ The lies were 
deliberate and carefully planned, operating to convince a segment of 
voters that there would be two elections, one legitimate and comprised 
only of in-person, election-day voting, and a separate, fraudulent 
election where vote-by-mail ballots were frauds and favored one 
political party.\25\ This highly effective and pernicious 
disinformation campaign against expanded voting access spread across 
the American political media ecosystem to mislead Americans that vote 
by mail is somehow unreliable or manipulable.\26\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \24\ Tim Alberta, A Journey Into the Heart of America's Voting 
Paranoia, Politico Magazine (Oct. 30, 2020), https://www.politico.com/
news/magazine/2020/10/30/voting-mail-election-2020-paranoia-433356.
    \25\ Jonathan Swan & Zachary Basu, A premeditated lie lit the fire, 
Axios (Jan. 16, 2021), https://www.axios.com/trump-election-
premeditated-lie-ebaf4a1f-46bf-4c37-ba0d-3ed5536ef537.html?deepdive=1.
    \26\ Yochai Benkler, et al., Mail-In Voter Fraud: Anatomy of a 
Disinformation Campaign, Harvard Berkman Klein Ctr. (Oct. 1, 2020), 
https://cyber.harvard.edu/publication/2020/Mail-in-Voter-Fraud-
Disinformation-2020.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In reality, our elections are quite secure, and the actual 
occurrence of voter fraud is vanishingly rare.\27\ The many successes 
in the administration of the 2020 election and low occurrence of 
irregularities, even under strained pandemic conditions, only further 
proves the point.\28\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \27\ See, e.g., Elaine Kamarck and Christine Stenglein, Low Rates 
of Fraud in Vote-By-Mail States Show the Benefits Outweigh the Risks, 
The Brookings Institution (June 2, 2020), https://brook.gs/3ct24tJ 
(analyzing elections in universal vote-by-mail States--Colorado, 
Hawaii, Oregon, Utah, and Washington--and discrediting fraud concerns); 
Wendy R. Weiser, The False Narrative of Vote-by-Mail Fraud Brennan Ctr. 
for Justice (Apr. 10, 2020), www.brennancenter.org/our-work/analysis-
opinion/false-narrative-vote-mail-fraud (studying voter datasets and 
concluding it is ``more likely for an American to be struck by 
lightning than to commit mail voting fraud''); Richard L. Hasen, 
Election Meltdown 128 (2020) (summarizing that ``[t]he issue of 
organized voter fraud has now been put to the test in courts and in 
social science'' and amounts to no more than ``a sham perpetuated by 
people who should know better, advanced for political advantage'').
    \28\ Nick Corasaniti, et al., The Times Called Officials in Every 
State: No Evidence of Voter Fraud, N.Y. Times (Nov. 6, 2021), https://
www.nytimes.com/2020/11/10/us/politics/voting-fraud.html; Christina A. 
Cassidy, Far too little vote fraud to tip election to Trump, AP finds, 
Associated Press (Dec. 14, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/voter-
fraud-election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-
7fcb6f134e528fee8237c7601db3328f; Jane Mayer, supra note 19 (stating, 
for example, that ``data on Arizona, the putative center of the storm, 
is not exactly alarming: of the millions of votes cast in the State 
from 2016 to 2020, only nine individuals were convicted of fraud. Each 
instance involved someone casting a duplicate ballot in another State. 
There were no recorded cases of identity fraud, ballot stuffing, voting 
by non-citizens, or other nefarious schemes. The numbers confirm that 
there is some voter fraud, or at least confusion, but not remotely 
enough to affect election outcomes'').
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    But the stolen election lies that attacked the innovations ensuring 
voting was safe and convenient in 2020--and producing record-breaking 
high turnout for voters of all political persuasions \29\--have 
continued and materialized in harmful changes in State laws. As 
Benjamin Ginsberg, a prominent Republican election lawyer, summarized, 
partisans who support the stolen election lies are ``conjuring up 
charges of fraud to erect barriers to voting for people [the Republican 
party] fears won't support its candidates.''\30\ The falsehoods have 
inspired a well-funded national movement that exploits the stolen 
election lies and baseless claims of fraud to make voting needlessly 
harder; it undermines the basic democratic guarantee that all eligible 
voters must be empowered to vote and have that vote counted.\31\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \29\ Drew DeSilver, Turnout soared in 2020 as nearly two-thirds of 
eligible U.S. voters cast ballots for president, Pew Research Ctr. 
(Jan. 28, 2021), https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2021/01/28/
turnout-soared-in-2020-as-nearly-two-thirds-of-eligible-u-s-voters-
cast-ballots-for-president/  (collecting turnout sources).
    \30\ Jeremy W. Peters, In Restricting Early Voting, the Right Sees 
a New `Center of Gravity', N.Y. Times (Mar. 24, 2021), https://
www.nytimes.com/2021/03/19/us/politics/republicans-trump-voting-
rights.html/.
    \31\ Jane Mayer, supra note 19.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    At the end of the 2021 State legislative sessions, States across 
the country had enacted a record-shattering number of new voting 
restrictions that often derived from the stolen election lies. In 
total, State legislators proposed 581 new bills that experts say would 
have made voting more difficult.\32\ Lawmakers in 21 States enacted 
into law 52 of those proposed bills--many of which were omnibus bills 
containing dozens of new restrictions--to make voting more 
difficult.\33\ This steep increase in new anti-voter laws far exceeded 
the previous high-water mark set with the 19 total voting restrictions 
enacted in 2011.\34\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \32\ These totals from the 2021 legislative sessions are derived 
from trackers at the Brennan Center for Justice, the Voting Rights Lab, 
and FiveThirtyEight. See, e.g., Voting Rights Lab, Comprehensive Bill 
Search, https://tracker.votingrightslab.org/pending/search (last 
accessed Mar. 23, 2022); Kaleigh Rogers, The Big Lie's Long Shadow, 
FiveThirtyEight (Jan. 12, 2022), https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/
the-big-lie-voting-laws/; Nathaniel Rakich & Elena Mejia, Texas's New 
Law Is The Climax Of A Record-Shattering Year For Voting Restrictions, 
FiveThirtyEight (Sept. 8, 2021), https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/
texass-new-law-is-the-climax-of-a-record-shattering-year-for-voting-
restrictions/; Voting Laws Roundup: December 2021, Brennan Ctr. for 
Justice (Jan. 12, 2022), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/
research-reports/voting-laws-roundup-december-2021.
    \33\ See sources cited supra note 32.
    \34\ Wendy R. Weiser & Lawrence Norden, Voting Law Changes in 2012, 
Brennan Ctr. for Justice (Oct. 3, 2011), https://www.brennancenter.org/
our-work/research-reports/voting-law-changes-2012/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Recent laws enacted in Texas and Georgia provide two of the most 
glaring examples. In those States, lawmakers hastily pushed through two 
broad election law measures--known as Georgia S.B. 202 and Texas S.B. 
1--that dramatically changed the States' voting processes to make 
access to the ballot more difficult overall. The legislatures in both 
States did so by engaging in procedural maneuvering that limited public 
input, relying on politically-motivated outside organizations to draft 
numerous provisions, and at times admitting that the changes were to 
serve a political calculation rather than bolster a fair voting 
process.\35\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \35\ See Exclusive: Documented Obtains Recording of 3 Hour Long 
Voter Suppression Strategy Session Hosted by ALEC, Documented (Dec. 6, 
2021), https://documented.net/investigations/exclusive-documented-
obtains-recording-of-3-hour-long-voter-suppression-strategy-session-
hosted-by-alec; Aris Folley, Georgia's GOP House Speaker says vote-by-
mail system would be `devastating to Republicans', The Hill (Apr. 4, 
2020), https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/490879-georgias-gop-
house-speaker-says-vote-by-mail-system-would-be-devastating; Stephen 
Fowler and David Armstrong, 16 Years Later, Georgia Lawmakers Flip 
Views On Absentee Voting, Georgia Public Broadcasting (Mar. 7, 2021), 
https://www.gpb.org/news/2021/03/07/16-years-later-georgia-lawmakers-
flip-views-on-absentee-voting.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Among other restrictions, both laws reduce the applicable time 
periods to request a mail-in ballot, and then add confusing 
requirements for voters submitting a vote by mail ballot or an 
application for a ballot to provide additional information that does 
not correlate with voting eligibility and disrupts voters' settled 
expectations. So far, the results of the two new laws are that fewer 
eligible voters, and in particular voters of color, are able to 
participate in the political process. In Texas this year, provisions of 
S.B. 1 resulted in election officials disqualifying vote-by-mail 
ballots at abnormally high rates during the State's 2022 primary.\36\ 
Roughly 13% of all submitted vote-by-mail ballots were discarded as a 
direct result of the new restrictive legal requirements, while experts 
say that any rejection rate above 2% is cause for concern in a typical 
election.\37\ The result was that 22,898 likely eligible voters in 
Texas did not have their ballots counted during the primary because of 
new hurdles S.B. 1 put in place.\38\ In Georgia, S.B. 202's changed 
requirements also led to election officials rejecting 4% of mail-in 
ballot request forms--up from fewer that 1% before the new law's 
restrictions were enacted. In a State like Georgia, where the margin of 
victory is often narrow, such a high number of voter rejections could 
make the difference in close elections.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \36\ Paul J. Weber & Acacia Coronado, Texas mail ballot rejections 
soar under new restrictions, Associated Press (Mar. 16, 2022), https://
apnews.com/article/2022-midterm-elections-elections-texas-voting-only-
on-ap-45ba51fe9dd951a0f82015bd6bd9ff41.
    \37\ Id.
    \38\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Texas' and Georgia's new restrictions are unfortunately not 
outliers. Florida in 2021 similarly enacted an omnibus restrictive 
voting law, S.B. 90, that also increased the costs of voting by mail 
and risks heightened rejections of eligible voters as in Georgia and 
Texas.\39\ Arizona, among several other restrictive laws, enacted H.B. 
1485 \40\ that made the State's permanent early voting list no longer 
permanent because declining to vote would trigger eligible voters being 
kicked off the list.\41\ Montana enacted numerous new laws--H.B. 176, 
H.B. 506, and S.B. 169--that in effect make it harder for students and 
Native voters to participate in the political process.\42\ And Iowa 
enacted S.F. 413, which makes voting more burdensome at nearly every 
stage of the process by significantly shortening available voting hours 
and opportunities.\43\ All of these bills and others have drawn costly 
litigation, requiring taxpayers to expend huge sums to defend laws that 
make it harder for them to vote, and are based on lies about elections 
rather than any empirical need to disrupt the valid ballot security 
measures already in place.\44\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \39\ Lawrence Mower, Florida Senate passes law calling for new 
elections security office under DeSantis control, Miami Herald (Mar. 6, 
2022), https://www.miamiherald.com/news/politics-government/state-
politics/article259083293.html.
    \40\ H.B. 1485, 55th Leg., 1st Reg. Sess. (Ariz. 2021).
    \41\ Ben Giles, Arizona Republicans Enact Sweeping Changes To 
State's Early Voting List, NPR (May 11, 2021), https://www.npr.org/
2021/05/11/995998370/arizona-republicans-enact-sweeping-changes-to-
states-early-voting-list.
    \42\ Iris Samuels, Lawsuit argues new Montana law suppresses 
student vote, Associated Press (Oct. 12, 2021), https://apnews.com/
article/congress-university-of-montana-montana-helena-voter-
registration-1e8774b19ba6faaa2165a96cf9e4e89e; Kevin Trevellyan, 
Advocates Fear Montana's New Ballot Law Could Harm Voters Who Struggle 
To Be Heard, NPR (May 25, 2021), https://www.npr.org/2021/05/25/
999904063/advocates-fear-montanas-new-ballot-law-could-harm-voters-who-
struggle-to-be-hear.
    \43\ Stephen Gruber-Miller, Gov. Kim Reynolds signs law shortening 
Iowa's early and Election Day voting, Des Moines Reg. (Mar. 9, 2021), 
https://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/news/politics/2021/03/08/iowa-
governor-kim-reynolds-signs-law-shortening-early-voting-closing-polls-
earlier-election-day/6869317002/.
    \44\ See, e.g., Voting Rights Litigation Tracker, Brennan Ctr. for 
Justice (Mar. 22, 2022), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/
research-reports/voting-rights-litigation-tracker.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The harmful results of the 2021 legislative session are far from 
the last word about what the stolen election lies have done to reshape 
voting in America. This year, in 2022, State legislatures across the 
country are back to work building on the election falsehoods to 
continue making voting harder for their citizens. As of March 2022, 
numerous proposed bills that are even more extreme that those presented 
in 2021 are making their way through States' legislatures.\45\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \45\ See e.g., Voting Laws Roundup: February 2022, Brennan Ctr. for 
Justice (Feb. 9, 2022), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/
research-reports/voting-laws-roundup-february-2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    For example, Arizona legislators have rushed to introduce over a 
hundred election bills that would politicize the State's election 
administration processes and propose substantial cutbacks to voting 
options that have historically eased the burdens on Arizona voters.\46\ 
One of the most egregious proposals that Arizona recently enacted into 
law, H.B. 2492, adds significant new voter registration and voter 
eligibility requirements that proponents knowingly enacted to violate 
Federal law.\47\ Among other extreme provisions, H.B. 2492 feeds off 
the stolen election lies by demanding that all voters provide costly 
and at times inaccessible documentary proof of U.S. citizenship and 
proof of current residence to be eligible to vote; conditioning ability 
to register on whether a voter submits a State registration form or 
Federal registration form; targeting naturalized U.S. citizens by 
mandating registrants disclose their place of birth, even though that 
is immaterial to eligibility; requiring State officials to check voters 
against inaccurate and stale databases to initiate purging them from 
the registration rolls, and then subjecting them to potential criminal 
prosecution; and prohibiting an entire class of eligible registered 
voters from using vote-by-mail opportunities and voting in Presidential 
elections at all.\48\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \46\ Kirk Siegler & Liz Baker, Arizona Republicans continue pushing 
voting restrictions, risking backfire, NPR (Mar. 4, 2022), https://
www.npr.org/2022/03/04/1083501487/arizona-republicans-continue-pushing-
voting-restrictions-risking-backfire.
    \47\ H.B. 2492, 56th Leg., 1st Reg. Sess. (Ariz. 2022).
    \48\ Ray Stern, Arizona requires proof of citizenship for voters, 
under bill signed by Gov. Ducey, Arizona Republic (Mar. 29, 2022), 
https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/elections/2022/03/30/
proof-citizenship-bill-arizona-voters-signed-gov-ducey/7221503001/; 
Katya Schwenk, `Extreme' Arizona Elections Bills Inching Closer to Law, 
Phoenix New Times (March 30, 2022), https://www.phoenixnewtimes.com/
news/extreme-arizona-elections-bills-inching-closer-to-law-13323436; 
Ray Stern, Would proof-of-citizenship bill really purge 200K voters? 
Answers mixed, Arizona Republic (Mar. 29, 2022), https://
www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/legislature/2022/03/29/arizona-
bill-proof-citizenship-voters-legal-issues/7188177001/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Additionally, a law that recently passed in Florida, S.B. 254, 
creates a new election crimes ``police force''--a measure local 
election officials deemed a ``recipe for disaster'' that seeks to 
placate stolen election lie proponents and invites the harassment of 
eligible voters.\49\ Georgia lawmakers have taken similar steps to 
advance H.B. 1464, which would, along with other disruptive election 
law changes, also create a broad-mandated election investigation task 
force that nonpartisan election officials oppose.\50\ And Idaho 
legislators have pushed two bills, H.B. 692 and H.B. 693, that reduce 
voting opportunities and that proponents have explicitly tied to their 
2020 stolen election lies.\51\ These are among many other examples of 
State lawmakers continuing to make policy decisions based on myths 
about the 2020 Presidential results, and currying political favor with 
the proponents of those falsehoods.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \49\ Gary Fineout, Legislature gives DeSantis new election police 
to target voter fraud in Florida,  Politico (Mar. 10, 2022), https://
www.politico.com/news/2022/03/10/desantis-gets-florida-election-police-
00015926.
    \50\ See, e.g., Jeff Amy, Georgia Republicans seek further changes 
to election laws, Associated Press (Mar. 16, 2022), https://apnews.com/
article/2022-midterm-elections-voting-donald-trump-elections-atlanta-
c6484e2653e93bb8885b6273f65c1cab; Maya King & Nick Corasaniti, Local 
Election Officials in Georgia Oppose G.O.P. Election Bill, N.Y. Times 
(Mar. 28, 2022), https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/28/us/politics/
georgia-election-bill.html.
    \51\ Clark Corbin, Idaho legislative committee advances to bills 
making last-minute voting changes,  Idaho Capital Sun (Mar. 2, 2022), 
https://idahocapitalsun.com/2022/03/02/idaho-legislative-committee-
advances-to-bills-making-last-minute-voting-changes/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Moreover, some key States have continued their unwillingness to 
make positive changes in State election law that would give voters 
greater faith in our elections. Most notable are Pennsylvania, 
Michigan, and Wisconsin, which, as described above, have continued 
their refusal to implement adequate procedures for election officials 
to preprocess early received ballots to lessen the overwhelming work on 
election day, enable quicker results, and reduce the ability of 
election conspiracists to sow doubt during the post-election day 
period. Pennsylvania failed to enact legislation that would give 
election officials more time to process vote-by-mail ballots.\52\ 
Wisconsin lawmakers have likewise declined to take up a proposal that 
would allow preprocessing and ease election day burdens.\53\ Michigan 
officials changed the law in late 2020 to permit some larger cities to 
open ballot envelopes 1 day before election day, but this slight change 
was inadequate to allow for proper preprocessing.\54\ Following the 
2020 election, some Michigan lawmakers wanted to go the opposite 
direction and make ballot counting even more difficult. Instead of 
allowing election officials added time to preprocess ballots, the 
lawmakers introduced a bill that would have mandated vote-counting stop 
the day after election day, regardless of whether all ballots were 
counted.\55\ States failing to make necessary and noncontroversial 
changes to avoid prolonged vote counting risks repeating the same 
mistakes of the 2020 election that gave room for the stolen election 
lies to develop.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \52\ Stephen Caruso, Little has changed for Pennsylvania election 
officials, voters heading into 2022, Pennsylvania Capital-Star (Mar. 
18, 2022), https://www.penncapital-star.com/civil-rights-social-
justice/little-has-changed-for-pennsylvania-election-officials-voters-
heading-into-2022/.
    \53\ See Shawn Johnson, Wisconsin bill to allow for early canvass 
of absentee ballots likely dead, Wisc. Public Radio (Mar. 8, 2022), 
https://www.wpr.org/wisconsin-bill-allow-early-canvass-absentee-
ballots-likely dead.
    \54\ Jonathan Oosting, Clerks: Michigan needs practical election 
reforms, not partisan posturing, Bridge Michigan (Mar. 1, 2022), 
https://www.bridgemi.com/michigan-government/clerks-michigan-needs-
practical-election-reforms-not-partisan-posturing.
    \55\ See S.B. 299, 100th Leg., 1st Reg. Sess. (Mich. 2021).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The choices undertaken by legislators to give credence to stolen 
election lies by undermining our voting system are deeply misguided. 
Alternatively, bipartisan groups of lawmakers in some States have 
rightly taken the lesson of the 2020 election to be that expansions to 
voter access help all voters and do not benefit one political party 
over another. Kentucky is an example of productive, bipartisan 
lawmaking to make voting easier without compromising election security. 
The State recently enacted legislation to increase voting options and 
election security (at least as compared to pre-pandemic elections), 
including an expansion of early voting, an on-line portal for 
requesting a mail-in ballot, and a gradual transition to voting systems 
that guarantee a paper ballot trail.\56\ Likewise, Utah's legislature 
rejected a proposed bill that would have eliminated Utah's 
comprehensive vote-by-mail system, H.B. 371, because a bipartisan group 
of lawmakers spurned the baseless claims of fraud and understood that 
expansions to voting help all citizens.\57\ Indeed, in Virginia, which 
has in recent years enacted many reliable expansions that improve 
voting access, saw historic high voter turnout in the election of a 
Republican Governor, further disproving the notion that letting more 
people vote redounds to the advantage of one political party.\58\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \56\ Bruce Schreiner, Kentucky Governor Signs Bipartisan Early 
Voting Measure, Associated Press (Apr. 7, 2021), https://
www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2021-04-07/kentucky-governor-
signs-bipartisan-early-voting-measure.
    \57\ Bryan Schott, Utah House committee rejects baseless claims of 
election fraud; soundly defeats bill to end universal vote by mail, 
Salt Lake Trib. (Feb. 23, 2022), https://www.sltrib.com/news/politics/
2022/02/23/utah-house-committee/.
    \58\ Reid J. Epstein, The Democratic Turnout Myth Unravels, N.Y. 
Times (Nov. 6, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/11/04/us/politics/
democrats-turnout-virginia.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The last 2 years of States' efforts to make significant cutbacks to 
the freedom to vote show that groundless stolen election myths are 
resulting in real-world consequences at voters' expense. Falsely 
asserting that voting by mail is somehow illegitimate (while often 
using that mechanism oneself) or that expanding times to vote somehow 
increases the risk of corruption is not empty rhetoric. Voters carry 
the burdens of these lies, and in the end they result in bad policy 
that makes the costs of participating in our democratic process higher 
for no valid reason.
3. The election falsehoods encourage partisan ballot reviews and 
        partisan election takeovers that undermine the integrity of the 
        voting system.
    The stolen election lies have also led to problematic new laws and 
practices that hyper-politicize the administration of elections and 
reviews of their results. This falls into two main categories: The 
inception of partisan sham audits that question lawfully certified 
results, and the attempted partisan usurpation of authority over 
elections administration that shifts control from designated election 
officials to political actors. These transformations that arise from 
the stolen election lies pose a tremendous threat to the proper 
functioning of, and the people's trust in, our voting system.
            i. Post-election partisan sham ``audits'' diminish trust in 
                    elections.
    True post-election audits, in which a subset of the ballots cast in 
each county are hand-counted to verify the accuracy of the initial 
reported results, are standard practice in many States across the 
county.\59\ But following the 2020 election, partisan actors in certain 
States sought to vindicate their falsehoods by undertaking unreliable 
post-certification reviews of the final results. Unlike standard post-
election audits--which include numerous safeguards to ensure 
reliability and transparency, and which serve a valuable role in our 
democracy--these ad hoc partisan investigations employ unqualified 
third parties using unreliable techniques to go on fishing expeditions 
for political fodder. Such sham investigations that build off the 
stolen election lies threaten to undermine confidence in our election 
systems.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \59\ See Post-Election Audits, Nat'l Conf. of State Legislatures 
(Oct. 25, 2019), https://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/
post-election-audits635926066.aspx.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The most infamous of these efforts, in Maricopa County, Arizona, 
illustrates the deficiencies and dangers of post-election partisan 
reviews that operate outside the typical audit framework. Roughly 
10,000 votes separated the winner and loser in Arizona's Presidential 
election results in 2020.\60\ A standard post-election audit conducted 
by a bipartisan group of election officials under State law found no 
irregularities.\61\ But dissatisfied with this outcome, and under 
pressure from supporters of the stolen election lies, Arizona's State 
senate leadership authorized a so-called ``forensic audit'' of the 
results only in Maricopa County--Arizona's largest and most diverse 
county.\62\ The legislature demanded--on threat of criminal 
prosecution--that Maricopa County officials turn over voter equipment 
and millions of ballots to a contractor called Cyber Ninjas that had no 
relevant experience in election work, dubious fundraising sources, 
unambiguous partisan and financial incentives, and volunteer staff 
comprised of aggrieved supporters of the losing Presidential 
candidate.\63\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \60\ See Arizona Election Results, State of Ariz., https://
results.arizona.vote/#/featured/18/0 (last visited Mar. 19, 2022).
    \61\ See Jonathan Bydlak, et al., Brennan Ctr. for Justice, 
Partisan Election Review Efforts in Five States 3-4 (July 8, 2021), 
https://www.brennancenter.org/sites/default/files/2021-07/
Partisan%20Election%20Review%20- 
Efforts%20Across%20the%20United%20States%20in%202021%20%2007.08.21.pdf.
    \62\ See Jonathan Bydlak, et al., supra note 62, at 5-6; Bob 
Christie, Arizona Senate Releases More Records of 2020 Election Review, 
Associated Press (Sept. 1, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/elections-
senate-elections-election-recounts-87a4805f495f9d4cfddf5827429ab105.
    \63\ See, e.g., Trey Grayson and Barry C. Burden, Report on the 
Cyber Ninjas Review of the 2020 Presidential and U.S. Senatorial 
Elections in Maricopa County, Arizona, States United Democracy Ctr. 
(June 22, 2021); StephenRicher, The Madness of the Maricopa County 
Election Audit, National Review (May 27, 2021), https://
www.nationalreview.com/2021/05/the-madness-of-the-maricopa-county-
election-audit/; Dan Zak, The Mess in Maricopa, Washington Post (May 
21, 2021), https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/2021/05/21/arizona-
election-audit-trump-maricopa/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The unprofessional and partisan Cyber Ninjas process ultimately 
confirmed that the announced winner of Arizona's Presidential election 
did in fact receive the most votes. But it nevertheless raised several 
baseless claims about the security of Arizona's elections,\64\ which 
has provided a pretext for Arizona lawmakers to foment skepticism of 
the results and propose changes in Arizona law that would make voting 
access harder and election administration more partisan.\65\ Despite 
Maricopa County publishing an exhaustive report thoroughly debunking 
the conspiracies promoted in the Cyber Ninjas report, polls show that 
the damage to Arizonans' faith in the integrity of the State's 
elections was already done just by having the sham review at all.\66\ 
Only 36% of those polled believe that the Cyber Ninjas review proved 
the fair winner in Maricopa County, and a majority of Republicans still 
rejected that topline finding, choosing to believe instead that the 
process found significant fraud to further validate the stolen election 
lies.\67\ The tangible costs go even further, with the Cyber Ninjas 
process now running up a $4 million bill to taxpayers to replace 
compromised election equipment and address numerous legal disputes.\68\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \64\ Ben Giles, The Discredited GOP Election Review in Arizona's 
Largest County Also Finds Biden Won, NPR (Sept. 24, 2021), https://
www.npr.org/2021/09/24/1040327483/the-controversial-election-review-in-
arizona-confirms-bidens-win.
    \65\ Miles Parks, Experts Call It a `Clown Show' but Arizona 
`Audit' Is a Disinformation Blueprint, NPR (June 3, 2021), https://
www.npr.org/2021/06/03/1000954549/experts-call-it-a-clown-show-but-
arizona-audit-is-a-disinformation-blueprint.
    \66\ See Maricopa County Elections Department, Correcting the 
Record (Jan. 2022), https://recorder.maricopa.gov/justthefacts/pdf/
Correcting%20The%20Record%20- %20January%202022%20Report.pdf.
    \67\ Erin Snodgrass, The much-maligned Arizona election audit 
reinforced doubt about the 2020 election results, according to a new 
poll, Business Insider (Nov. 15, 2021), https://
www.businessinsider.com/arizona-election-audit-reinforced-doubt-about-
2020-election-results-2021-11.
    \68\ Mary Jo Pitzl, How the price tag of the Arizona Senate's 
review of the 2020 election grew from $150K to more than $4M, Arizona 
Republic (Feb. 23, 2022), https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/
politics/arizona/2022/02/23/arizona-audit-cost-to-taxpayers-for-2020-
election-review-tops-4-million/6829459001/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Unfortunately, Arizona's error-prone, costly, and partisan-
motivated ``investigation'' has not been an isolated occurrence.\69\ 
Undeterred by the roundly rejected and wasteful Cyber Ninjas review, 
other States have followed Arizona's lead to undertake their own 
partisan election investigations that further damage faith in our 
voting systems. After the Governor vetoed the Pennsylvania 
legislature's proposed wide-ranging measure to rewrite the State's 
election law, including provisions that would enable partisan officials 
to sabotage elections, lawmakers turned to other methods to further 
their stolen election lies. In September 2021, State senators in 
Pennsylvania began what they called a ``forensic investigation'' of the 
election that was decided and certified almost a year prior.\70\ The 
investigation launched a sweeping, ad hoc, secretive, and standardless 
review of ballots, which, among other things, attempted to subpoena the 
private information of more than 9 million registered voters for 
analysis by a firm with no experience in election law or data 
analytics.\71\ When details of the contract with the audit company were 
eventually released to the public, more questions than answers remained 
and it is unclear if the results of the ``investigation'' due in May 
2022 will be released for public scrutiny.\72\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \69\ See Not an Audit, States United Action, Fair Fight Action 
United to Protect Democracy, https://notanaudit.com/ (last visited Mar. 
31, 2022).
    \70\ Andrew Seidman & Jonathan Lai, What to know about Pennsylvania 
Republicans' investigation of the 2020 election, The Phila. Inquirer 
(Sept. 29, 2021), https://www.inquirer.com/politics/pennsylvania/
pennsylvania-election-audit-2021-updates-results-20210922.html.
    \71\ States United Democracy Ctr. June Report, supra note 1.
    \72\ Sam Dunklau, Pa. Senate election probe contract doesn't say if 
the public will see the results, among other things, WITF (Dec. 9, 
2021), https://www.witf.org/2021/12/07/pa-senate-election-probe-
contract-doesnt-say-if-the-public-will-see-the-results-among-other-
things/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In Texas, just days after the conclusion of the Arizona sham review 
and hours after a request from the former President, the Texas 
secretary of state's office announced a ``full forensic audit'' of the 
2020 general election in four Texas counties: Collin, Dallas, Harris, 
and Tarrant.\73\ Unsurprisingly, the first batch of results of the 
review found nothing out of the ordinary.\74\ But regardless, the 
efforts undertaken gave election skeptics more reasons to further their 
lies about the results--even in a State that the former President won.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \73\ Neelam Bohra, Texas secretary of state's office auditing four 
counties' 2020 elections months after an official called the Statewide 
process ``smooth and secure'', The Texas Tribune (Sept. 23, 2021), 
https://www.texastribune.org/2021/09/23/texas-2020-election-audit/.
    \74\ Alexa Ura & Allyson Waller, First part of Texas' 2020 election 
audit reveals few issues, echoes findings from review processes already 
in place, The Texas Tribune (Dec. 31, 2021), https://
www.texastribune.org/2021/12/31/secretary-state-texas-election-audit/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Finally, in Wisconsin, a top State lawmaker hired former Wisconsin 
Supreme Court Justice Michael Gableman to oversee a partisan 
investigation of the 2020 election, announcing the selection at his 
political party's annual convention.\75\ Gableman's alleged vow to act 
as a neutral arbiter with no preconceived conclusions was inconsistent 
with his previous public and private efforts to spread the stolen 
election lies.\76\ When Gableman released his 136-page report to the 
General Assembly in February 2022, he embraced fringe election 
conspiracies and advocated for the decertification of the 2020 election 
results--a proposal both impossible and unlawful.\77\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \75\ Shawn Johnson, Following Warning By Trump, Vos Announces 
Former Justice Will Lead Assembly GOP Election Probe, Wisc. Public 
Radio (June 26, 2021), https://www.wpr.org/following-warning-trump-vos-
announces-former-justice-will-lead-assembly-gop-election-probe.
    \76\ Patrick Marley, Michael Gableman said bureaucrats `stole our 
votes' before he was put in charge of reviewing 2020 election, 
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Jan. 6, 2022), https://www.jsonline.com/
story/news/politics/2021/08/09/michael-gableman-said-election-stolen-
before-put-charge-wisconsin-review/5518815001/ Scott Bauer, Ex-
justice's Wisconsin election probe drags as critics scoff, Associated 
Press (Feb. 7, 2022), https://apnews.com/article/joe-biden-wisconsin-
elections-racial-injustice-election-2020-
9f9ce4a95e3d21bebb4ef7bd9543146f.
    \77\ GOP investigator suggests Wisconsin Legislature decertify 2020 
election results, WISN (Mar. 1, 2022) https://www.wisn.com/article/
wisconsin-republican-report-suggests-decertifying-2020-election-
results/39271268; Zach Montellaro, Wisconsin GOP's 2020 report embraces 
fringe election decertification theory, Politico (Mar. 1, 2022), 
www.politico.com/news/2022/03/01/wisconsin-republicans-embrace-
election-decertification-00012793.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    While these partisan audits have largely gone unaddressed and seem 
to be further expanding to other States, the U.S. Department of Justice 
has published warnings about their harms to our democratic process. In 
July 2021, the Attorney General released guidance to ensure that States 
comply with Federal law if conducting post-election ``audits.''\78\ The 
Attorney General's stated primary concerns with these purported audits 
are two-fold: The risk to compromising election records, as happened in 
Arizona, and the threats of voter intimidation, such as those 
associated with stolen election conspiracists going door-to-door to 
interrogate voters in North Carolina, Colorado, and elsewhere.\79\ 
Along these lines, the Attorney General sent a letter to the organizers 
of the Arizona audit, which lead them to drop a planned canvass of 
voters under the threat of Federal enforcement action.\80\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \78\ U.S. Dep't of Justice, Justice Department Issues Guidance on 
Federal Statutes Regarding Voting Methods and Post-Election ``Audits'' 
(July 28, 2021), https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-
issues-guidance-federal-statutes-regarding-voting-methods-and-post.
    \79\ See, e.g., Nicholas Riccardi, Lawsuit seeks to stop group's 
door-to-door voter fraud hut, Associated Press (Mar. 9, 2022), https://
apnews.com/article/voting-rights-2022-midterm-elections-biden-steve-
bannon-colorado-63beba2f69226f53ed305457c47a83ea; Press Release, 
Statement Regarding Door-to-Door Canvassers Requesting Voter 
Information, North Carolina State Board of Elections (Feb. 18, 2022), 
https://www.ncsbe.gov/news/press-releases/2022/02/18/statement-
regarding-door-door-canvassers-requesting-voter-information.
    \80\ Jeremy Duda, Justice Department raises concerns with audit, 
Arizona Mirror (May 5, 2021), https://www.azmirror.com/2021/05/05/
justice-department-raises-concerns-with-audit/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    These partisan-driven, costly, and amateur reviews of elections by 
lawmakers and inexperienced third parties feed the stolen election 
narrative. They are at best redundant with the States' existing 
legitimate audit procedures that are dependable and designed by experts 
in the field of election administration. More dangerously, the so-
called ``fraudits'' further erode trust in democracy, and the 
fabricated results can be used as a cover story for partisans' efforts 
to exert greater control over elections and enact laws that make voting 
needlessly more difficult.
            ii. Attempts at partisan usurpation of election 
                    administration reduce security in elections.
    Among the most concerning responses to the stolen election lies are 
attempts by partisan actors to interfere with traditionally nonpartisan 
election administration functions. In the 2021 legislative sessions, 
State legislators ``proposed more than two hundred bills in 41 States 
that have the potential to allow those legislators to interfere with 
election administration in one way or another, and at least two dozen 
bills have already been passed into law.''\81\ These efforts can be 
tied directly to the former President's efforts to ``pursu[e] a 
strategy to have Republican-run legislatures in battleground States 
override results favoring [his opponent], in an unprecedented bid to 
alter the outcome of the election,''\82\ as well as to his pressure 
campaign on election officials to ``find'' votes and manufacture his 
victory.\83\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \81\ See, e.g., sources cited supra note 1.
    \82\ Deanna Paul, Trump Campaign Wants States to Override Electoral 
Votes for Biden. Is That Possible?, The Wall Street Journal (Nov. 21, 
2020), https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-campaign-wants-states-to-
override-electoral-votes-for-biden-is-that-possible-11605973695.
    \83\ Former president Trump's much-publicized call to Secretary 
Raffensperger asking him to ``find'' an additional 11,780 votes and 
declare Trump the winner of Georgia's Presidential election shows the 
political willingness to corruptly influence election officials to set 
aside the principles of impartial election administration to achieve 
partisan aims. See Amy Gardner, `I Just Want to Find 11,780 Votes': In 
Extraordinary Hour-Long Call, Trump Pressures Georgia Secretary of 
State to Recalculate the Vote in His Favor,  Wash. Post (Jan. 3, 2021), 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-raffensperger-call-
georgia-vote/2021/01/03/d45acb92-4dc4-11eb-bda4-
615aaefd0555_story.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Most alarming were new State proposals that in some cases would 
have allowed partisan actors to entirely discard the results of popular 
elections with which they disagreed.\84\ For example, a proposed bill 
in Arizona last year, H.B. 2720, would have provided that ``by majority 
vote at any time before the Presidential inauguration [the legislature] 
may revoke the secretary of state's issuance or certification of a 
Presidential elector's certificate of election.''\85\ A similar 
proposal in Missouri, H.B. 1301, would have allowed the State 
legislature to ``retain its authority to name Presidential electors in 
cases of fraud'' or if a court or the Executive branch were perceived 
to have interfered in election administration.\86\ In Texas, S.B. 7, a 
bill ultimately replaced by S.B. 1 discussed above, would have granted 
power to overturn elections to the State's elected judges.\87\ And in 
Nevada, certain lawmakers sought a State constitutional amendment that 
would have transferred power to certify the State's election results 
from the State supreme court to the State legislature.\88\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \84\ See, e.g., Matt Vasilogambros, Republican Legislators Curb 
Authority of County, State Election Officials, Pew Charitable Trusts 
(July 28, 2021), https://www.pewtrusts.org/en/research-and-analysis/
blogs/stateline/2021/07/28/republican-legislators-curb-authority-of-
county-state-election-officials.
    \85\ H.B. 2720, 55th Leg., Reg. Sess. (Ariz. 2021). Arizona had two 
other proposed bills that would have similarly allowed the state 
legislature to interfere with election results. See States United 
Democracy Ctr. June Report, supra note 1, at 9-10.
    \86\ H.B. 1301, 101st Gen. Assemb., Reg. Sess. (Mo. 2021).
    \87\ Brennan Ctr. for Justice, Voting Laws Roundup: December 2021 
(Jan. 12, 2022), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-
reports/voting-laws-roundup-december-2021.
    \88\ Assemb. J. Res. 13, 81st Leg., 2021 Reg. Sess. (Nev. 2021).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    These failed efforts are part of a concerning trend of State 
legislatures responding to the outcome of the 2020 election by trying 
to consolidate power to themselves at the expense of experienced 
election officials.\89\ Indeed, several less extreme but still 
problematic proposals in the same vein have become law since 2020.\90\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \89\ See Election Crisis Task Force Report, supra note 1, at 3.
    \90\ See Nick Corasaniti, Voting Rights and the Battle Over 
Elections: What to Know, N.Y. Times (Dec. 29, 2021), https://
www.nytimes.com/article/voting-rights-tracker.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    For instance, in Arkansas, lawmakers passed a new law, S.B. 643, 
that authorizes a legislative committee to investigate election 
complaints and makes it easier to take over county elections without a 
legitimate justification.\91\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \91\ Sam Levine, How Trump's big lie has been weaponized since the 
Capitol attack, The Guardian (July 7, 2021), https://
www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/jul/07/us-capitol-riot-attack-on-
democracy.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Legislators in Georgia followed suit after proponents of the stolen 
election lies baselessly accused nonpartisan county election workers of 
manipulating votes. Part of Georgia's S.B. 202, enacted during Spring 
2021 and described above, grants the State Election Board broad power 
over county election officials.\92\ Specifically, S.B. 202 allows ``the 
State Election Board [to] suspend elected county or municipal 
superintendents and appoint an individual to serve as the temporary 
superintendent'' in that jurisdiction.\93\ Superintendents are 
considered the ``top election officials'' of each county, and the 
Board-appointed superintendent will be able to ``exercise all the 
powers and duties of a superintendent as provided by law,''\94\ which 
includes disqualifying voters, relocating polling sites, and 
potentially refusing to certify results.\95\ Because a party with the 
majority in both houses of the Georgia General Assembly will control 
the Board, the broad power granted to the State Election Board 
correspondingly broadens the Assembly's power to influence members of 
the Board on partisan grounds.\96\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \92\ Nicholas Reimann, GOP-Controlled Georgia Board Launches Probe 
in Possible Takeover of Atlanta Elections from Local Officials, Forbes 
(Aug. 18, 2021), https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicholasreimann/2021/08/
18/gop-controlled-georgia-board-launches-probe-in-possible-takeover-of-
atlanta-elections-from-local-officials.
    \93\ Ga. Code Ann.  21-2-33.1(f).
    \94\ Ga. Code Ann.  21-2-33.1(f).
    \95\ S.B. 202 did not alter the standards for certifying election 
results. See, e.g., Ga. Code Ann.  21-2-33.1(f) (giving Board-
appointed superintendents ``all the powers and duties of a 
superintendent as provided by law''). However, there is debate over the 
circumstances under which a superintendent could refuse to certify 
results and what the consequences of that refusal would be. The 
relevant statute provides that a superintendent ``shall . . . 
certif[y]'' the results by the Monday following the election after the 
returns are ``found to be correct or corrected.'' Id.  21-2-493(k). As 
part of this process, ``[i]f any error or fraud is discovered, the 
superintendent shall compute and certify the votes justly.'' Id.  21-
2-493(i). Georgia law also does not explicitly provide for what happens 
if a superintendent declines to certify results: The relevant provision 
provides only that she ``shall'' do so. Ga. Code Ann. Sec.  21-2-
493(k). When a county refused to certify the results of a recount in 
2020, the Secretary of State's office responded by providing technical 
support to facilitate the recount process and launching a still-on-
going investigation of the county's process. Secretary of State's 
Office Opens Investigation into Coffee County's Handling of Recount, 
Ga. Sec'y Of State, https://sos.ga.gov/index.php/elections/
secretary_of_states_office_opens_investigation_into_coffee_countys_handl
ing_of_recount (last visited Mar. 30, 2022).
    \96\ See, e.g., Ga. Code Ann.  21-2-33.1(f) (giving Board-
appointed superintendents ``all the powers and duties of a 
superintendent as provided by law''); see also States United Democracy 
Ctr. April Report, supra note 1, at 12-14; Nick Corasantini & Reid J. 
Epstein, What Does Georgia's Voting Law Really Do?, N.Y. Times (Aug. 
18, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/04/02/us/politics/georgia-
voting-law-annotated.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    S.B. 202 also more directly grants the Georgia General Assembly 
power over local election officials by allowing individual Georgia 
representatives to request performance reviews of election officials in 
their jurisdictions.\97\ Upon receiving these requests, the State 
Election Board is to appoint ``an independent performance review 
board'' and then may use the findings of the review board as the basis 
to remove the official whose performance is in question.\98\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \97\ Ga. Code Ann.  21-2-106(a).
    \98\ Id.  21-2-106(a), (c).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Reviews pursuant to this provision are already under way. The State 
Election Board appointed a partisan performance review board to 
investigate the baseless stolen election allegations in Fulton County 
and potentially take over election administration there, which contains 
Georgia's largest concentration of Democratic voters.\99\ Despite 
recently confirming the accuracy of Fulton County's election results, 
the State Election Board nonetheless referred the county election 
officials to the State attorney general for investigation of the scant 
incidents of inadvertent and inevitable human errors--moving a step 
closer to the county officials being replaced by appointed partisans 
who would administer the next election.\100\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \99\ Mark Niesse, Prospect of Georgia election takeover fuels 
concerns about vote integrity, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution (Dec. 
23, 2021), https://www.ajc.com/politics/prospect-of-georgia-election-
takeover-fuels-concerns-about-vote-integrity/
CFMTLFW6TZFH7O4LLNDZ3BY4NE/; Kristal Dixon, Exit interview with 
Georgia's most high-profile elections director, Axios (Mar. 23, 2022), 
https://www.axios.com/local/atlanta/2022/03/23/exit-interview-georgia-
elections-director-richard-barron; Nick Corasaniti, Potential G.O.P. 
Takeover of Atlanta-Area Election Board Inches Forward, N.Y. Times 
(Aug. 18, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/08/18/us/politics/
georgia-elections-republicans.html.
    \100\ Mark Niesse, Investigation blames human error for issues in 
Fulton election audit, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution (Mar. 16, 
2022), https://www.ajc.com/politics/investigation-blames-human-error-
for-issues-in-fulton-election-audit/QTRKTKJYY5B3BMK2WOHU6AQXVY/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Additionally, in other Georgia counties, nonpartisan election 
boards that have been in place for years to manage and certify 
Georgia's elections are being abruptly dissolved under new Georgia 
law.\101\ This fundamental restructuring of local election 
administration in Georgia has enabled counties to shift power away from 
long-time impartial election officials and toward inexperienced 
partisan actors, who in some instances have explicitly endorsed 
groundless stolen election claims.\102\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \101\ See, e.g., Stephanie McCrummen, `Gutted': What happened when 
a Georgia elections office was targeted for takeover by those who claim 
the 2020 election was a fraud, Wash. Post (Mar. 14, 2022), https://
www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2022/03/14/georgia-elections-fraud-purge/
; James Oliphant & Nathan Layne, Georgia Republicans purge Black 
Democrats from county election boards, Reuters (Dec. 9, 2021), https://
www.reuters.com/world/us/georgia-republicans-purge-black-democrats-
county-election-boards-2021-12-09/; Nick Corasaniti and Reid J. 
Epstein, supra note 1.
    \102\ James Oliphant & Nathan Layne, Georgia Republicans purge 
Black Democrats from county election boards, Reuters (Dec. 9, 2021 8:53 
PM), https://www.reuters.com/world/us/georgia-republicans-purge-black-
democrats-county-election-boards-2021-12-09/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Finally, adding to the Georgia General Assembly's intrusion on 
election administration functions, S.B. 202 removes the Georgia 
secretary of state as the chairperson of the State Election Board, 
instead calling for the chairperson to be elected by the Georgia 
General Assembly, with the secretary of state merely deemed an ``ex 
officio nonvoting member of the board.''\103\ While the chairperson 
``shall be nonpartisan,''\104\ this new procedures nonetheless open the 
door for the election of a chairperson who shares the majority of the 
General Assembly's views regarding the results or legitimacy of any 
given election. Given the tensions between Georgia's secretary of state 
and legislators that arose during the 2020 election--with Republican 
Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger facing criticism for not 
supporting the former President and his allies' stolen election lies 
\105\--legislators could seek out a chairperson whom members believe 
would follow its party line on any given matter, including whether to 
certify the results of an election if the winner does not belong to the 
same party that controls the General Assembly.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \103\ Ga. Code Ann.  21-2-30(a), (d).
    \104\ Id.  21-2-30(a.1)(2).
    \105\ Amy Gardner, Ga. Secretary of State Says Fellow Republicans 
Are Pressuring Him to Find Ways to Exclude Ballots, Wash. Post (Nov. 
16, 2020), https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/brad-raffensperger-
georgia-vote/2020/11/16/6b6cb2f4-283e-11eb-8fa2-
06e7cbb145c0_story.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Additionally, a new law proposed but recently struck down in 
Arizona would have also shifted power away from the Arizona secretary 
of state, Katie Hobbs, on blatantly partisan grounds.\106\ The law 
provided that Arizona's attorney general, Mark Brnovich, ``has sole 
authority to direct the defense of State election law or laws being 
challenged,'' thereby permitting him to ``intervene on behalf of the 
State'' ``in any proceeding in which the validity of a State election 
law is challenged . . . if [he] determines'' that ``intervention is 
appropriate.''\107\ Accordingly, the law would have given the Arizona 
Attorney General, who is Republican, ultimate authority to dictate 
legal strategy in election law cases in the event that he disagrees 
with the State's elected secretary of state, currently a Democrat.\108\ 
Importantly, this designation of control over litigation was designed 
to last only through the end of Secretary Hobbs' term, as the goal of 
the legislature was ``to ensure that the authority given to . . . 
Brnovich would not transfer to any Democrat who won the next race for 
attorney general.''\109\ Although the Arizona Supreme Court struck down 
this law on procedural grounds because the legislature improperly 
passed it in an omnibus budget bill,\110\ nothing in the court's 
decision prevents the State from reenacting it, and numerous pending 
proposals in the Arizona legislature would effectively do so.\111\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \106\ See Michael Wines, In Arizona, G.O.P. Lawmakers Strip Power 
From a Democrat, N.Y. Times (June 25, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/
2021/06/25/us/Arizona-Republicans-voting.html..--
    \107\ S.B. 1819, sec. 33, 55th Leg., 1st Reg. Sess. (Ariz. 2021).
    \108\ Ben Giles, Arizona Republicans Strip Some Election Power from 
Democratic Secretary of State, NPR (June 30, 2021), https://
www.npr.org/2021/06/30/1011154122/arizona-republicans-strip-some-
election-power-from-democratic-secretary-of-state.
    \109\ Michael Wines, In Arizona, G.O.P. Lawmakers Strip Power from 
a Democrat, N.Y. Times (June 25, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/
06/25/us/Arizona-Republicans-voting.html.
    \110\ See Jeremy Duda, Court strikes down bans on mask mandates, 
critical race theory and more, Arizona Mirror (Sept. 27, 2021), https:/
/www.azmirror.com/2021/09/27/court-strikes-down-bans-on-mask-mandates-
critical-race-theory-and-more/.
    \111\ See, e.g., H.B. 2691, 56th Leg., 1st Reg. Sess. (Ariz. 2022); 
H.B. 2378, 56th Leg., 1st Reg. Sess. (Ariz. 2022); S.B. 1137, 56th 
Leg., 1st Reg. Sess. (Ariz. 2022).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In Texas, the recently enacted S.B. 1 presents another instance of 
the legislative usurpation of election officials' authority. S.B. 1 
imposes severe restrictions on how election officials can administer 
elections and help citizens apply to vote or cast a vote.\112\ For 
example, the Texas law prohibits early voting clerks from any ``attempt 
to solicit a person to complete an application for an early voting 
ballot,''\113\ and forbids State or local officials from 
``distribut[ing] an application form for an early ballot'' to someone 
who did not request the application, or from ``us[ing] public funds to 
facilitate'' such distribution by someone else.\114\ Finally, the bill 
uses sweeping language to mandate that public officials ``not create, 
alter, modify, waive, or suspend any election standard, practice, or 
procedure mandated by law or rule in a manner not expressly authorized 
by this code.''\115\ In effect, S.B. 1 would eliminate election 
officials' ability to administer State law in the manner that they 
believe would, based on their experience and discretion in specific 
circumstances, ensure that more citizens are able to vote easily and 
that elections run efficiently within the processes established by the 
legislature.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \112\ Chuck Lindell, Gov. Greg Abbott Signs SB 1, the GOP Voting 
Bill, into Law, Austin Am. Statesman (Sept. 7,2021), https://
www.statesman.com/story/news/2021/09/07/texas-voting-law-gop-greg-
abbott-sb-1/5751333001.
    \113\ Tex. Elec. Code  84.0011 (sec. 4.02)
    \114\ Tex. Elec. Code  84.0111 (sec. 4.05)
    \115\ Tex. Elec. Code  276.017 (sec. 6.03)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    New proposals in 2022 continue the trend of State legislators 
attempting to enact laws that seize power over elections to partisan 
lawmakers at the expense of experienced election officials. From new 
bills filed in Wisconsin and Michigan to renewed efforts in 
Arizona,\116\ legislators are pursuing troubling ways to put election 
administration in the hands of political party patrons rather than 
trusted election officials.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \116\ See, e.g., Lalee Ibssa & Meg Cunningham, GOP-controlled 
legislatures look to overhaul election laws ahead of 2022 midterms, ABC 
News (Feb. 10, 2022), https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/gop-controlled-
legislatures-overhaul-election-laws-ahead-2022/story?id=82730052 
(Michigan); Michael McDaniel, Arizona Senate pushes an election bill to 
create a permanent audit team that could be fielded by Cyber Ninja 
auditors, Courthouse News (Feb. 17, 2022), https://
www.courthousenews.com/arizona-senate-pushes-an-election-bill-to-
create-a-permanent-audit-team-that-could-be-fielded-by-cyber-ninja-
auditors/ (Arizona); Jake Thomas, Ex-Oath Keeper, 1/6 Protester Lead 
Push to Change Michigan's Election Audit Process, Newsweek (Jan. 20, 
2022), https://www.newsweek.com/ex-oath-keeper-1-6-protester-lead-push-
change-michigans-election-audit-process-1671428.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The changes in State laws that narrow the authority traditionally 
given to impartial elections experts, or that provide for increased 
influence over the functions of election administration by the State 
legislature, risk removing the key guardrails that prevented further 
democratic crises in 2020. By increasing the partisan influence over 
traditionally nonpartisan election administration tasks, such as the 
ministerial responsibility of certifying the final results after the 
votes have been counted, supporters of the stolen election lies have 
made usurping the electoral power away from the people easier. Enabling 
greater partisan manipulation of election administration risks widening 
cracks in our legal framework and removing the principled election 
officials who were willing to stand firm for democratic norms rather 
than submit to raw political objectives during the 2020 election.
4. The election falsehoods encourage threats against hardworking 
        election officials, the criminalization of their work, and the 
        politicization of their roles.
    Nonpartisan election officials have borne the brunt of some of the 
worst consequences from the 2020 stolen election lies. These public 
servants, who work under-appreciated jobs to ensure that our democratic 
processes properly function and that every vote that should be counted 
gets counted, have come under tremendous stress throughout the 2020 
election cycle and since. Given that the former President recently 
suggested that because ``[t]he vote counter is often more important 
than the candidate,'' and that his supporters ``have to get a lot 
tougher and smarter at the polls,'' the forces intimidating election 
officials are unlikely to subside.\117\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \117\ Josh Dawsey, Trump muses on war with Russia and praises Kim 
Jong Un, Wash. Post (Mar. 6, 2022), https://www.washingtonpost.com/
nation/2022/03/06/trump-focuses-foreign-policy-speech-gops-top-donors/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The immense pressure on election officials most alarmingly includes 
a steep rise in the harassment and threats of violence targeting 
them.\118\ A recent investigation identified hundreds of occurrences of 
intimidation and harassment against election workers and officials 
Nation-wide, but only a handful of arrests of the attackers.\119\ 
Proponents of the stolen election lies directed over 100 explicit 
threats of death or violence at more than 40 election officials.\120\ 
Nearly 8 in 10 local election officials feel the physical danger 
presented in their work has increased recently, and one-sixth report 
having received explicit threats of violence.\121\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \118\ See, e.g., Linda So & Jason Szep, Special Report: Terrorized 
U.S. Election Workers Get Little Help from Law Enforcement, Reuters 
(Sept. 8, 2021), https://www.reuters.com/legal/government/terrorized-
us-election-workers-get-little-help-law-enforcement-2021-09-08/; The 
Brennan Ctr. for Justice and the Bipartisan Policy Ctr., Election 
Officials Under Attack (June 16, 2021), https://www.brennancenter.org/
sites/default/files/2021-06/BCJ-129%20ElectionOfficials_v7.pdf.
    \119\ Linda So & Jason Szep, supra note 118.
    \120\ Id.
    \121\ See, e.g., Poll of Local Election Officials Finds Safety 
Fears for Colleagues--and Themselves,  Brennan Ctr.for Justice (Mar. 
10, 2022), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/analysis-opinion/
poll-local-election-officials-finds-safety-fears-colleagues-and; Zach 
Montellaro, Local election officials are exhausted, under threat and 
thinking about quitting, Politico (Mar. 10, 2022), https://
www.politico.com/news/2022/03/10/election-officials-exhausted-under-
threat-00015850; Press Release, ``One in Three Election Officials 
Report Feeling Unsafe Because of Their Job,'' Brennan Ctr. For Justice 
& Bipartisan Policy Ctr. (June 16, 2021), https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/analysis-opinion/one-three-election-
officials-report-feeling-unsafe-because-their-job.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    State secretaries of state--who typically serve as their States' 
chief election officers--are among those who faced significant threats 
and intimidation to themselves and their families in the wake of the 
2020 election.
    In her testimony to the U.S. Senate Committee on Rules and 
Administration in October 2021, Arizona secretary of state Katie Hobbs 
described the threats that she and other election officials have faced 
in the year since the 2020 election.\122\ From the armed groups that 
amassed outside Secretary Hobbs' home chanting, ``Katie come out and 
play, we are watching you,'' to the orange jumpsuits mailed to 
intimidate Arizona county supervisors,\123\ these once behind-the-
scenes election officials are now facing growing threats.\124\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \122\ U.S. Senate Committee on Rules and Administration, Emerging 
Threats to Election Administration (Oct. 26,2021), https://
www.rules.senate.gov/hearings/emerging-threats-to-election-
administration.
    \123\ Denelle Confair, AZ Secretary of State Katie Hobbs Testifies 
Before U.S. Senate Committee on Emerging Election Threats, News 4 
Tucson (Nov. 1, 2021), https://www.kvoa.com/news/az-secretary-of-state-
katie-hobbs-testifies-before-u-s-senate-committee-on-emerging-election/
article_0193c76e-3689-11ec-b3c7-1f2864e3a0ae.html.
    \124\ Miles Parks, Death Threats and Conspiracy Theories: Why 2020 
Won't End for Election Officials, NPR (Aug. 17, 2021), https://
www.npr.org/2021/08/17/1027747378/death-threats-and-conspiracy-
theories-why-2020-wont-end-for-election-officials; Jane Mayer, supra 
note 19.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, who resisted the 
former President's claims that the election in Georgia was stolen, also 
``receiv[ed] death threats almost immediately after Trump's surprise 
loss in Georgia,'' leading him and his family to go into hiding after 
his daughter-in-law's home was broken into and individuals identified 
as members of the Oath Keepers, an extremist group, were discovered 
outside his own home.\125\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \125\ Linda So, Trump-Inspired Death Threats Are Terrorizing 
Election Workers, Reuters (June 11, 2021), https://www.reuters.com/
investigates/special-report/usa-trump-georgia-threats/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson also faced death threats 
and harassment following the election.\126\ Armed protesters used 
megaphones to chant election-related conspiracy theories outside of 
Benson's home a few weeks after the election while Benson was home with 
her 4-year-old son.\127\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \126\ Id.; see also Bill Chappel, Michigan Secretary of State Says 
Armed Protesters Descended on Her Home Saturday, NPR (Dec. 7, 2020), 
https://www.npr.org/sections/biden-transition-updates/2020/12/07/
943820889/michigan-secretary-of-state-says-armed-protesters-descended-
on-her-home-saturday.
    \127\ Bill Chappel, Michigan Secretary of State Says Armed 
Protesters Descended on Her Home Saturday, NPR (Dec. 7, 2020), https://
www.npr.org/sections/biden-transition-updates/2020/12/07/943820889/
michigan-secretary-of-state-says-armed-protesters-descended-on-her-
home-saturday.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Colorado secretary of state Jena Griswold reported to Federal 
officials receiving 22 death threats in 1 week alone in February 
2022.\128\ One prominent proponent of election conspiracy theories in 
Colorado claimed that Griswold stole the election and threatened that 
``if you're involved in election fraud, then you deserve to hang'' 
because, he said, ``sometime the old ways are the best ways.''\129\ 
Long after the 2020 Presidential election, these threats suggest that 
the dangerous trend extends beyond high-profile Federal elections to 
even include off-cycle State elections.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \128\ Zach Montellaro, supra note 121.
    \129\ Bente Birkeland, Facing ongoing threats, Colorado's Secretary 
of State says the position needs more security--and other politicians 
want the same, Colo. Public Radio (Mar. 2, 2022), www.cpr.org/2022/03/
02/colorado-secretary-of-state-jena-griswold-security-harassment/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Workers in lower- or mid-level positions similarly face threats and 
intimidation from those angered by the outcome of the election and 
their misguided stolen election beliefs. For example, some supporters 
of the election falsehoods seized on a video that spread quickly on-
line of a poll worker placing paper in the trash, believing it proved 
the vote count had been corrupted.\130\ Even though Fulton County 
quickly fact-checked the claims, showing they were false by comparing 
the size of the paper thrown away with the size of a ballot, ``by the 
time fact checkers weighed in, the poll worker had already quit and 
gone into hiding, due to the false accusations against him.''\131\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \130\ Dan Glaun, Threats to Election Officials Piled Up as 
President Trump Refused to Concede, PBS News Frontline (Nov. 17, 2020), 
https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/article/threats-to-election-
officials-piled-up-as-president-trump-refused-to-concede/.
    \131\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    These threats are unlikely to subside on their own. Indeed, a 
recent poll shows that nearly 4-in-10 polled Americans who believe the 
stolen election lies also say that violence may be necessary to ``save 
our country,'' in their view.\132\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \132\ Aaron Blake, Nearly 4 in 10 Who Say Election Was Stolen From 
Trump Say Violence Might Be Needed to Save America, Wash. Post (Nov. 1, 
2021), https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/11/01/4-10-who-say-
election-was-stolen-trump-say-violence-might-be-needed-save-america/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    While the Federal Government has attempted to step in, those 
efforts have so far been unable to abate the serious threats and risks 
of harm to election officials. The Department of Justice held a recent 
meeting with a bipartisan group of over 1,400 election officials to 
``discuss mounting and persistent threats to the safety of election 
officials and workers across the country,'' and launched an Election 
Threats Task Force to monitor and address such threats.\133\ And the 
Department of Homeland Security issued an advisory warning that 
``[s]ome domestic violent extremists have continued to advocate for 
violence in response to false or misleading narratives about 
unsubstantiated election fraud,'' and that the ``months preceding the 
upcoming 2022 midterm elections could provide additional opportunities 
for these extremists and other individuals to call for violence 
directed at democratic institutions, political candidates, party 
offices, election events, and election workers.''\134\ But from this 
announced increased attention to the issue, the Department of Justice 
has revealed only two prosecutions of stolen election extremists who 
credibly threatened violence against election officials.\135\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \133\ Press Release, Readout of Justice Department Leadership 
Meeting on Threats to Election Workers, U.S. Dep't of Justice Office of 
Public Affairs (Aug. 26, 2021), https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/readout-
justice-department-leadership-meeting-threats-election-workers; Jane C. 
Timm, `We Have to Protect Them': DOJ Vows Investigations, Prosecutions 
of Threats to Election Workers, Wash. Post (June 25, 2021), https://
www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-allies-election-oversight/2021/
11/28/3933b3ce-4227-11ec-9ea7-3eb2406a2e24_story.html.
    \134\ Dep't of Homeland Security, Summary of Terrorism Threat to 
the U.S. Homeland (Feb. 7, 2022), https://www.dhs.gov/ntas/advisory/
national-terrorism-advisory-system-bulletin-february-07-2022.
    \135\ Press Release, Man Charged for Threatening Nevada State 
Election Worker, U.S. Dep't of Justice Office of Public Affairs (Jan. 
27, 2022), https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/man-charged-threatening-
nevada-state-election-worker; Press Release, Texas Man Arrested for 
Making Election-Related Threats to Government Officials, U.S. Dep't of 
Justice Office of Public Affairs (Jan. 27, 2022), https://
www.justice.gov/opa/pr/texas-man-arrested-making-election-related-
threats-government-officials.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    At the same time that election workers are fielding alarming 
harassment and intimidation from outside actors, recent changes in 
State laws since the 2020 election have also created new ways for 
election work to be subject to formal criminal prosecution. Numerous 
States--including Texas, Iowa, and North Dakota--have enacted new laws 
that specifically criminalize activities by election officials, in many 
cases with the threat of felony prosecutions or with hefty punishments 
for even ``technical infractions'' of election law.\136\ Some of these 
new criminal law proposals, such as the recently-enacted Arizona H.B. 
2492 described above, put election workers in the precarious position 
to either abandon their duties to register eligible voters pursuant to 
Federal law requirements, or follow those Federal duties but face State 
felony prosecution applying new State criminal laws that target only 
election officials.\137\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \136\ See, e.g., States United Democracy Ctr. April and June 
Reports, supra note 1.
    \137\ H.B. 2492, 56th Leg., 1st Reg. Sess. (Ariz. 2022); Ray Stern, 
supra note 48.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Under these perilous conditions, election workers are leaving their 
posts at worrying rates, or they are being forced out of their 
positions for partisan gain. Administering an election during an 
unprecedented global pandemic is a challenging feat and harrowing 
experience in itself; many election officials who now face threats of 
violence after getting through the 2020 election are opting for 
retirement rather than continue through the 2022 or 2024 election 
cycles.\138\ In one recent study, 30% of polled election officials 
reported knowing one or more workers who have already left their job at 
least in part because of a fear for their safety due to the increased 
threats and intimidation.\139\ The same poll shows that 20% of the 
remaining election officials say they are likely to quit before 
2024.\140\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \138\ Michael Wines, After a Nightmare Year, Election Officials Are 
Quitting, N.Y. Times (July 2, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/07/
02/us/politics/2020-election-voting-officials.html.
    \139\ Poll of Local Election Officials Finds Safety Fears for 
Colleagues--and Themselves Brennan Ctr. for Justice (Mar. 10, 2022), 
https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/analysis-opinion/poll-local-
election-officials-finds-safety-fears-colleagues-and.
    \140\ See id.; see also Miles Parker, 1 in 5 local election 
officials say they're likely to quit before 2024, NPR (Mar. 10, 2022), 
https://www.npr.org/2022/03/10/1085425464/1-in-5-local-election-
officials-say-theyre-likely-to-quit-before-2024.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Other election officials willing to stick around may not be able to 
do so because partisan actors are finding new ways to force their 
removal. In Michigan, after a Republican appointee to the State board 
of canvassers refused to stop the certification of the State's 2020 
election results, partisan lawmakers blocked reappointing him to a 
subsequent term.\141\ Virginia's Governor recently replaced the State's 
top election official, who was widely seen as a nonpartisan consensus 
choice, with a former top aide to a State senator who while in office 
praised the January 6 insurrectionists.\142\ In Pennsylvania, the State 
legislature pursued the impeachment of the members of two county 
election commissions who voted to count timely received vote-by-mail 
ballots that lacked a date handwritten by the voter, which has been 
subject to on-going litigation.\143\ And the former State supreme court 
justice leading the partisan sham review of Wisconsin's elections has 
pushed to jail city election officials for refusing to participate in 
the stolen election conspiracy.\144\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \141\ Sam Levine, How Trump's big lie has been weaponized since the 
Capitol attack, The Guardian (July 7, 2021), https://
www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/jul/07/us-capitol-riot-attack-on-
democracy.
    \142\ Patrick Wilson, Youngkin names local GOP official, former 
aide to Chase, as new State elections commissioner, The Richmond Times-
Dispatch (Mar. 20, 2022), https://richmond.com/news/state-and-regional/
youngkin-names-local-gop-official-former-aide-to-chase-as-new-state-
elections-commissioner/article_2d9ee742-742f-5325-
9692562bd65c37fc.html.
    \143\ Jonathan Lai, Pa. Republican Lawmakers Threaten to Impeach 
Philly Officials for Counting Undated Mail Ballots, The Phila. Inquirer 
(May 28, 2021), https://www.inquirer.com/politics/election/
pennsylvania-republican-lawmakers-impeachment-philadelphia-city-
commissioners-20210528.html; States United Democracy Ctr. June Report, 
supra note 1.
    \144\ Patrick Marley, Wisconsin Republicans seek to jail more 
officials as part of their review of the 2020 Presidential election, 
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel (Feb. 18, 2022), https://www.jsonline.com/
story/news/politics/2022/02/18/wisconsin-republicans-michael-gableman-
seeks-jail-officials-2020-presidential-election-review/6853176001/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    While election officials are under attack and offices across the 
country are experiencing a mass exodus of experienced employees, stolen 
election lies proponents have redoubled their efforts to replace 
election workers with rogue political actors. There is currently an 
active, well-funded campaign to recruit partisans to take over election 
administration roles, making it easier to sabotage future 
elections.\145\ As of January 27, 2022, at least 21 candidates who have 
subscribed to stolen election lies are running for secretary of states 
in 18 States; this means that in 2 out of 3 secretary of state contests 
Nation-wide, one of the leading candidates has publicly supported the 
conspiracy challenging the 2020 election results.\146\ Some the most 
highly contested secretary of state races with election skeptics as 
candidates are in swing States--e.g., Arizona, Wisconsin, Georgia, and 
Nevada--where a rogue State elections chief could cause significant 
uncertainty and disruption.\147\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \145\ Amber Phillips, How Trump-backed secretary of state 
candidates would change elections in the United States Wash. Post (Dec. 
1, 2021), https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/12/01/how-trump-
backed-secretary-state-candidates-would-change-elections-america/; 
Lawrence Norden & Derek Tisler, Addressing Insider Threats in 
Elections, Brennan Ctr. for Justice (Dec. 8, 2021), https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/analysis-opinion/addressing-insider-
threats-elections.
    \146\ States United Democracy Ctr., Secretary of State Races in 
2022 (Jan 27, 2022), https://statesuniteddemocracy.org/wp-content/
uploads/2022/02/sos_deniers.html.
    \147\ Amber Phillips, How Trump-backed secretary of state 
candidates would change elections in the United States Wash. Post (Dec. 
1, 2021), https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2021/12/01/how-trump-
backed-secretary-state-candidates-would-change-elections-america/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Lower-profile election worker positions are also at risk of being 
coopted for political purposes. Appointees to State and county election 
positions are becoming more extreme and partisan. In Michigan, for 
example, political actors have worked in recent months to replace 
county canvassers with partisans who have embraced the stolen election 
lies.\148\ Similar efforts are under way in Ohio, Iowa, and other 
States.\149\ In a particularly shocking example, one of the attendees 
at the so-called Stop the Steal rally leading to the January 6 storming 
of the U.S. Capitol soon returned home to Pennsylvania, declared his 
candidacy to be an election judge, and then won that election.\150\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \148\ Sam Levine, Why are Michigan Republicans quietly replacing 
key election officials?, The Guardian (Oct. 14, 2021), https://
www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/oct/14/michigan-republicans-election-
officials-fight-to-vote.
    \149\ See, e.g., Jake Zuckerman, Governor appoints former lawmaker 
to elections board who hyped up 2020 voter fraud claims, Ohio Capital 
Journal (Mar. 10, 2022), https://ohiocapitaljournal.com/2022/03/10/
governor-appoints-former-lawmaker-to-elections-board-who-hyped-up-2020-
voter-fraud-claims/; Thomas Beaumont & Anthony Izaguirre, Iowa flap 
raises fears of politicized local election offices, Associated Press 
(May 30, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/donald-trump-iowa-local-
elections-voting-rights-elections-8ae7926dcd07f4dba7- ede49d6fc894d9.
    \150\ Charles Homans, In Bid for Control of Elections, Trump 
Loyalists Face Few Obstacles, N.Y. Times (Dec. 15, 2021), https://
www.nytimes.com/2021/12/11/us/- politics/trust-in-elections-trump-
democracy.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In sum, election officials since 2020 have faced intense external 
forces of threats of violence and harassment, and internal forces of 
being criminalized, fired, or politicized. In this environment, the 
country's election infrastructure will struggle to maintain nonpartisan 
and impartial workers who are in it to promote democracy and fair 
results rather than seeking partisan gain. Election officials are the 
lifeblood of a properly functioning voting system. Allowing them to be 
replaced by partisan actors risks severe consequences if and when the 
next election crisis arises.
b. the consequences of stolen election lies are depressed public trust 
                in government and the electoral process.
    Since the 2020 Presidential election, poll after poll has shown 
that the events of January 6th and the fallout of the stolen election 
lies have shaken Americans' belief in our democratic institutions. 
Generally, Americans' trust in government is at historic lows.\151\ 
People are concerned that the events of January 6th are not just 
isolated incidents but a sign of increasing political violence, and 
this has eroded the belief that American democracy is secure.\152\ In 
one January 2022 poll, 64% of Americans believe democracy in the United 
States is ``in crisis and at risk of failing''\153\ and only 20% are 
very confident in the country's ability to conduct an honest 
election.\154\ Polled voters see that risk growing, with two-thirds of 
respondents in one poll saying the county is more at risk of democratic 
decline than it was a year ago.\155\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \151\ Public Trust in Government: 1958-2021, Pew Research Ctr. (May 
17, 2021), https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2021/05/17/public-
trust-in-government-158-2021/ (last accessed Mar. 30, 2022).
    \152\ Anthony Salvanto, Kabir Khanna, Fred Backus, & Jennifer 
Depinto, CBS News poll: A year after Jan. 6, violence still seen 
threatening U.S. democracy, and some say force can be justified, CBS 
News (Jan. 2, 2022, 1:01 PM), https://www.cbsnews.com/news/january-6-
opinion-poll-2022/.
    \153\ Joel Rose, 6 in 10 Americans say U.S. democracy is in crisis 
as the `Big Lie' takes root, NPR (Jan. 3, 2022), https://www.npr.org/
2022/01/03/1069764164/american-democracy-poll-jan-6.
    \154\ Brittany Shepherd, Americans' faith in election integrity 
drops: POLL, ABC News (Jan. 6, 2022), https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/
americans-faith-election-integrity-drops-poll/story?id=82069876; 
Brittany Shepherd, Majority of Americans think Jan. 6 attack threatened 
democracy: POLL, ABC News (Jan. 2, 2022), https://abcnews.go.com/
Politics/majority-americans-jan-attack-threatened-democracy-poll/
story?id=81990555.
    \155\ Salvanto, supra note 152.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    This deterioration of voters' confidence in elections and in 
Government crosses party lines. General feelings of pride in American 
democracy are at all-time lows, hovering above 50% and down 
considerably from a high of 90% in 2001 and 63% in 2017.\156\ While 
only 30% of polled Democratic voters attest they are confident in the 
U.S. election system,\157\ the falsehood that the 2020 election was 
stolen from the former President has been disastrous for Republicans' 
faith in our elections, with only 13% of Republicans who are very 
confident in the election system and 59% that have little faith.\158\ 
Overall, only 37% of polled Republicans said they are confident the 
next Presidential election will be open and fair.\159\ And while 82% of 
Democrats said they would trust the results of the 2024 Presidential 
election to be accurate if their candidate did not win; only 33% of 
Republicans reported feeling the same.\160\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \156\ Dan Balz, Scott Clement, & Emily Guskin, Republicans and 
Democrats divided over Jan. 6 insurrection and Trump's culpability, 
Post-UMD poll finds, Wash. Post (Jan. 1, 2022), https://
www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/01/01/post-poll-january-6/.
    \157\ Shepherd, supra note 154.
    \158\ Id.
    \159\ David Nather, Axios-Ipsos Poll: Republicans lose trust in 
elections, Axios (Nov. 20, 2021), https://www.axios.com/axios-ipsos-
poll-republicans-lose-trust-elections-52410b23-9513-453b-8a37-
d140cae2d455.htmldeepdive=1.
    \160\ PBS News Hour/NPR/Marist Poll, Nature of the Sample: NPR/PBS 
NewsHour/Marist Poll of 1,209 National Adults (Nov. 5, 2021), https://
maristpoll.marist.edu/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/NPR_PBS-
NewsHour_Marist-Poll_USA-NOS-and-Tables_B_202110251104.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Troublingly, voters of both parties doubt that State officials of 
the other party will agree to accept the results of an election if 
their party loses.\161\ Democrats have become more skeptical, with 67% 
concerned about the results in Republican States, compared to 56% of 
Republicans about results in Democratic States.\162\ Independents share 
in the skepticism but are more concerned about Republican-controlled 
States.\163\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \161\ Balz, supra note 156.
    \162\ Id.
    \163\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Polling conducted after the results of the Arizona Cyber Ninjas 
review also shows those partisan-motivated ``investigations'' are 
especially damaging to the public trust. As noted above, only 36% of 
those polled believe that the Cyber Ninjas review proved the correct 
winner of Maricopa County's Presidential votes; a majority of polled 
Republicans reject the audit's findings, choosing to believe instead 
that the process found significant voter fraud when it in fact did 
not.\164\ Additional polling from before and after Arizona's partisan 
election investigation found that it did more to reinforce concerns 
around election fraud than to alleviate them.\165\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \164\ Erin Snodgrass, The much-maligned Arizona election audit 
reinforced doubt about the 2020 election results, according to a new 
poll, Business Insider (Nov. 15, 2021), https://
www.businessinsider.com/arizona-election-audit-reinforced-doubt-about-
2020-election-results-2021-11.
    \165\ Doubt in American System Increases, Monmouth Univ. Polling 
Institute (Nov. 15, 2021), https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/
reports/monmouthpoll_us_111521/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The perceived and actual risk of repeated political violence 
because of disputed election results is also on the rise. Asked if 
violent action against the Government is justified at times, over a 
third of respondents in one poll agreed, with the strongest support 
coming from Republicans and independents.\166\ This increased 
acceptance of political violence is significantly higher than past 
polls over more than two decades.\167\ Disturbingly, recent polling 
shows that Americans now expect violence from supporters of the losing 
side in an election: While only 2% of respondents say they actively 
favor violence if their side lost the election, a quarter said it would 
depend on the circumstances.\168\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \166\ Balz, supra note 156.
    \167\ Id.
    \168\ Salvanto, supra note 152.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Researchers studying political violence are also ringing alarm 
bells about the increased risks in the United States. For example, 
Rachel Kleinfeld, senior fellow in the Democracy, Conflict, and 
Governance Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace 
and a leading expert on political violence, warns that both the amount 
and nature of political extremism has worsened in the United 
States.\169\ Kleinfeld's identified factors that elevate the risks of 
political violence typify our current circumstances: (1) Perceived 
highly-competitive contests that could shift the balance of power; (2) 
stark partisan division based on identity; (3) electoral rules that can 
be manipulated; and (4) weak institutional constraints on violence that 
lead perpetrators to believe they will not be held accountable.\170\ 
According to Kleinfeld, ideas that were once considered fringe are now 
covered on mainstream media outlets, creating a growing audience that 
is willing to undertake, support, or excuse the use of force for 
perceived political gain.\171\ The people who could be willing to 
commit political violence are now not just rogue outliers, but 
sometimes regular Americans who are integrated in social life but 
nonetheless captured and manipulated by stolen election 
conspiracies.\172\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \169\ Rachel Kleinfeld, The Rise of Political Violence in the 
United States, Journal of Democracy (Oct. 2021), https://
www.journalofdemocracy.org/articles/the-rise-of-political-violence-in-
the-united-states/.
    \170\ Id.
    \171\ Id.
    \172\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Additionally, the election falsehoods have split the Republican 
Party into fractions of supporters and representatives who believe the 
conspiracy and those who accept reality.\173\ The unwillingness of some 
partisans to accept the results of the 2020 election now over 15 months 
later creates deep rifts in our political associations. Even some 
leading Republican officials who initially were willing to question 
aspects of the election without fully committing to the conspiracy now 
cannot reel in members of their party who are perpetuating the extreme 
falsities.\174\ As the fringe views are given credence, they become 
more prominent and take on a life of their own that cannot easily be 
pulled away from the minds of voters and lawmakers once party 
leadership realizes the deception has gone too far.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \173\ Reid J. Epstein, Fringe Scheme to Reverse 2020 Election 
Splits Wisconsin G.O.P., N.Y. Times (Feb. 19, 2022), https://
www.nytimes.com/2022/02/19/us/politics/wisconsin-election-
decertification.html.
    \174\ Id.; see also Calvin Woodward, supra note 16.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In sum, manufactured concerns over stolen elections make large 
segments of the electorate distrust legitimate results and question the 
democratic process. Far from empty rhetoric or just politics as usual, 
these stolen election lies mislead Americans into challenging the rule 
of law and contesting the peaceful transition of power when their 
preferred candidates lose. This reduced confidence in elections leads 
to partisan lawmakers further damaging the system by enacting laws that 
politicize the process or make voting needlessly more difficult. And 
the stolen election lies inspire the type of political violence 
perpetrated on January 6, 2021, which rips at the ties binding our 
country by denigrating our democratic institutions and ideals.
c. the federal government must take action to prevent further damage to 
                          our election system.
    While the problems stemming from the stolen election lies are 
significant and pose a serious threat to the proper functioning of our 
democracy, many of them are solvable through Federal legislative and 
enforcement action. The priorities must be to address increased efforts 
to raise the burdens of voting, the manipulation of votes and results 
after election day, and the alarming threats against election 
officials. Congress can pass new laws that fix weaknesses in our 
current legal framework where proponents of stolen election lies have 
sought to exploit gaps for political gain. Many such fixes already 
exist in specific provisions contained in proposed laws currently 
before Congress.
    First, Congress must enact new laws that will curb the rise of laws 
that make voting needlessly more difficult based on stolen election 
lies. As I have described above, new laws and proposed legislation in 
the last 2 years have chased the shadow of voter fraud by finding 
heavy-handed and overbroad news ways to remove eligible voters from the 
registration rolls and make voter access more difficult.
    There are several critical provisions already drafted in 
legislation before Congress that would make an immediate difference and 
have had successful bipartisan use in the States. To begin, enacting 
same-day registration can limit the harmful effects of wrongful 
registration purges by allowing eligible voters to still show up to 
register and vote on election day.\175\ Standardizing meaningful early 
voting in the States will also enable citizens with greater voting 
inflexibilities (such as rural voters, students, and voters with less 
access to resources) to still be able to cast their ballot even if they 
cannot do so on election day.\176\ Guaranteeing access to vote by 
mail--a process that States across the country have tested for years 
and found is safe, secure, and partisan-neutral \177\--will make sure 
that any eligible voter who wants to vote is empowered to do so.\178\ 
And requiring that States give their election officials meaningful 
additional time before election day to preprocess received ballots and 
prepare them to be tabulated after the polls close will help ensure 
timely election results.\179\ Enacting these Federal baselines, among 
others, will reinforce our National ideals that, no matter where 
someone lives or how many resources they have, all citizens should have 
a fair chance to participate in the electoral process.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \175\ See, e.g., Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis Act, Rules 
Committee Print 117-28 Text of the House Amendment to the Senate 
Amendment to H.R. 5746, Sec. 1031. Same Day Registration, at 71-75 
(Jan. 12, 2022), https://rules.house.gov/sites/
democrats.rules.house.gov/files/BILLS-117HR5746EAS-RCP117-
28.pdf#page=71; see also See Same Day Voter Registration, Nat'l Conf. 
of State Legislatures (Sept. 9, 2021), https://www.ncsl.org/research/
elections-and-campaigns/same-day-registration.aspx.
    \176\ See, e.g., Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis Act, Rules 
Committee Print 117-28 Text of the House Amendment to the Senate 
Amendment to H.R. 5746, Sec. 1201. Early Voting, at 119-126 (Jan. 12, 
2022), https://rules.house.gov/sites/democrats.rules.house.gov/files/
BILLS-117HR5746EAS-RCP117-28.pdf#page=119; see also Early In-Person 
Voting, Nat'l Conf. of State Legislature (Jan. 17, 2022), https://
www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/early-voting-in-state-
elections.aspx.
    \177\ See, e.g., Daniel M. Thompson, et al., Universal vote-by-mail 
has no impact on partisan turnout or vote share, Proceedings on the 
National Academy of Sciences (June 9, 2020), https://www.pnas.org/doi/
10.1073/pnas.2007249117; see also sources cited supra notes 28 & 29.
    \178\ See, e.g., Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis Act, Rules 
Committee Print 117-28 Text of the House Amendment to the Senate 
Amendment to H.R. 5746, Subtitle D--Voting by Mail, at 128-169 (Jan. 
12, 2022), https://rules.house.gov/sites/democrats.rules.house.gov/
files/BILLS-117HR5746EAS-RCP117-28.pdf#page=128.
    \179\ See, e.g., Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis Act, Rules 
Committee Print 117-28 Text of the House Amendment to the Senate 
Amendment to H.R. 5746, Sec. 1201. Early Voting, at 126-27 (Jan. 12, 
2022), https://rules.house.gov/sites/democrats.rules.house.gov/files/
BILLS-117HR5746EAS-RCP117-28.pdf#page=126.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Second, Congress should legislatively reinforce that States have no 
power to disturb the results of popular elections. Congress can do so 
by updating the Electoral Count Act (ECA), focusing on two core 
clarifying revisions that remove ambiguities in the 1887 statute's at-
times obscure and outdated language. Critically, the ECA must make 
clear that once a State holds a legitimate popular election to select 
its Presidential electors, the State legislature has no power to 
displace those results. The ECA is key to reinforcing what we know from 
our Constitution to be true--that any post-hoc usurpation of the 
Presidential electors power from the people violates voters' 
fundamental Constitutional rights, and intrudes on the Federal 
Government's Constitutional prerogative to designate the time for 
holding Presidential elections and the process for counting the duly 
provided votes from States' legitimate popular election results.
    Along similar lines, Congress must update the ECA to expressly 
provide that once a State's election results are settled, the State 
Governor has no authority to refuse to certify that outcome. Again, our 
Constitution forbids any contrary result. But the ECA can and should be 
updated to fortify that elections in our modern democracy are dictated 
by the people, not one potentially rogue official. Congress can 
likewise enact additional laws that authorize the Department of 
Justice, as provided in existing legislative proposals, to prevent 
interference with State and local officials conducting the vote count 
and election certification to ensure the people's voice is accurately 
reflected.\180\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \180\ See, e.g., Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis Act, Rules 
Committee Print 117-28 Text of the House Amendment to the Senate 
Amendment to H.R. 5746, Title III--Preventing Election Subversion, 
Subtitle A--Restrictions on Removal of Election Administrators, at 251-
62 (Jan. 12, 2022), https://rules.house.gov/sites/
democrats.rules.house.gov/files/BILLS-117HR5746EAS-RCP117-
28.pdf#page=251.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Third, Congress must urgently pass new laws that provide greater 
Federal protections for election officials and volunteers. Existing 
Federal criminal law generally prohibits threats made through 
interstate communications, which has been the source of the Department 
of Justice's recent prosecutions of two stolen election extremists who 
threatened officials in Nevada and Georgia.\181\ But that leaves 
enforcement gaps for certain intrastate and in-person threats that 
Federal law may not reach, and fails to protect the specific security 
needs of election officials under attack.\182\ Existing proposals in 
legislation before Congress that add new Federal criminal offenses and 
resources for the prosecutions of violent stolen election conspiracists 
would aid the Department of Justice to provide needed protections for 
election workers.\183\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \181\ See sources cited supra note 135.
    \182\ See Linda So & Jason Szep, supra note 118.
    \183\ See, e.g., Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis Act, Rules 
Committee Print 117-28 Text of the House Amendment to the Senate 
Amendment to H.R. 5746, Subtitle B--Increased Protections for Election 
Workers at 263-64 (Jan. 12, 2022), https://rules.house.gov/sites/
democrats.rules.house.gov/files/BILLS-117HR5746EAS-RCP117-
28.pdf#page=263; Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis Act, Rules Committee 
Print 117-28 Text of the House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to 
H.R. 5746, Sec. 3205. Private Rights Of Action By Election Officials, 
Sec. 3206. Making Intimidation Of Tabulation, Canvass, And 
Certification Efforts A Crime, at 278-80 (Jan. 12, 2022), https://
rules.house.gov/sites/democrats.rules.house.gov/files/BILLS-
117HR5746EAS-RCP117-28.pdf#page=278.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Additionally, the Federal Government, through CISA and other 
agencies, must engage now to coordinate more trainings and provide 
additional funding for election offices to protect themselves against 
threats and take steps to remove identifying information on-line to 
avoid harassment or doxing.\184\ Programs that protect the information 
of domestic violence and stalking victims in government databases can 
serve as a model.\185\ Additionally, election officials under threat 
should be provided Federal grants to purchase home intrusion detection 
systems, and further funding for training and education related to 
maintaining greater personal security.\186\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \184\ See Brennan Ctr. for Justice, Election Officials Under 
Attack, supra note 118, at 8-9.
    \185\ Id. at 7.
    \186\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Fourth, Congress can enact new laws to strengthen protections over 
the security of State voting equipment, voters' ballots, and the 
counting process. Provisions in existing proposals before Congress 
include improving security and chain-of-custody procedures for voting 
equipment and ballots to prevent their manipulation by State actors or 
private companies during sham partisan reviews of election 
results.\187\ Federal law should also be updated to prohibit Federal 
actors from improperly seizing State or county voting equipment and 
materials.\188\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \187\ Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis Act, Rules Committee Print 
117-28 Text of the House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 
5746, Subtitle D--Protection of Election Records & Election 
Infrastructure, at 280-86 (Jan. 12, 2022), https://rules.house.gov/
sites/democrats.rules.house.gov/files/BILLS-117HR5746EAS-RCP117-
28.pdf#page=280.
    \188\ See, e.g., Matthew S. Schwartz, Jan. 6 panel is investigating 
a Trump administration plan to seize voting machines, NPR (Jan. 23, 
2022), https://www.npr.org/2022/01/23/1075219215/jan-6-panel-is-
investigating-a-trump-administration-plan-to-seize-voting-machine.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Fifth, Congress should enact new laws that seek to address post-
election misinformation, as well as fraudulent fundraising and spending 
on efforts to perpetuate the stolen election lies. Congress can do so 
by prohibiting misinformation campaigns intended to impede the lawful 
counting of ballots or certification of results.\189\ Congress can 
address problematic financial incentives for stolen election lies \190\ 
and protect donors by restricting fraudulent post-election fundraising 
for frivolous election contests.\191\ It can also increase post-
election spending transparency for voters by defining spending by 
candidates and groups on efforts to influence vote counting as election 
spending, so it is subject to the same limits and disclosure 
requirements as other campaign spending.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \189\ See, e.g., Social Media Misinformation and Administration in 
the 2020 General Election, Stanford-MIT Healthy Elections Project (Mar. 
10, 2021), https://healthyelections.org/sites/default/files/2021-06/
Social_Media_Misinformation.pdf.
    \190\ See, e.g., Isaac Stanley-Becker, et al., Prosecutors demanded 
records of Sidney Powell's fundraising groups as part of criminal 
probe, Wash. Post (Nov. 30, 2021), https://www.washingtonpost.com/
politics/2021/11/30/sidney-powell-defend-the-republic-criminal-probe/.
    \191\ See, e.g., John L. Dorman, supra note 18.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 ______
                                 
  Statement of Wendy R. Weiser, Vice President for Democracy, Brennan 
              Center for Justice at NYU School of Law \1\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\ The Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of 
Law is a nonpartisan public policy and law institute that works to 
strengthen the systems of democracy and justice so that they work for 
all Americans. I am the vice president for democracy and director of 
the Brennan Center's Democracy Program, which among other issues 
focuses on voting rights and election administration. I have authored 
numerous nationally-recognized reports, studies, and articles on voting 
rights and elections. My work has been featured in academic journals 
and media outlets across the country. I have served as counsel in many 
voting rights lawsuits and have testified previously before Congress, 
and before several State legislatures, on a variety of issues relating 
to election administration. My testimony does not purport to convey the 
views, if any, of the New York University School of Law. I thank Lauren 
Miller, counsel at the Brennan Center, for her substantial assistance 
in preparing this testimony.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             April 8, 2022
    Chairman Thompson and Members of the Select Committee: Thank you 
for the opportunity to submit this testimony to discuss the 
disinformation about the 2020 Presidential election that fueled the 
violent January 6, 2021 attack on the U.S. Capitol (the 
``insurrection'') and how that disinformation continues to threaten 
voting and elections in America.
    On behalf of the Brennan Center for Justice, I thank this Committee 
for its investigation into one of the most shameful and alarming 
attacks on American democracy in our Nation's history. As you know, the 
insurrection's motivating theory was that the 2020 Presidential 
election was ``stolen'' from former President Donald Trump.\2\ This 
``Big Lie'' relies on disproven \3\ and racially charged allegations of 
wide-spread voter fraud,\4\ ballot irregularities,\5\ and conspiracies 
to otherwise ``rig'' the election.\6\ The 2020 election is over, but 
the Big Lie continues to wreak havoc on our elections. My testimony 
will explain how the same disinformation about voter fraud and the 2020 
election that drove the January 6 insurrection is fueling on-going 
efforts to undermine voting rights and sabotage the electoral process 
across the country, as well as efforts to attack election officials and 
otherwise undermine impartial election administration.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\ ``Transcript of Trump's Speech at Rally before US Capitol 
Riot,'' Associated Press, January 13, 2021, https://apnews.com/article/
election-2020-joe-biden-donald-trump-capitol-siege-media-
e79eb5164613d6718e9f4502eb471f27; Brian Naylor, ``Read Trump's Jan. 6 
Speech, a Key Part of Impeachment Trial,'' National Public Radio, 
February 10, 2021, https://wwwnpr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-
jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial; Lauren Leatherby et al., 
``How a Presidential Rally Turned into a Capitol Rampage,'' New York 
Times, January 12, 2021, https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/01/
12/us/capitol-mob-timeline.html; and Southern Poverty Law Center, The 
Road to Jan. 6: A Year of Extremist Mobilization, https://
www.splcenter.org/news/2021/12/30/road-jan-6-year-extremist-
mobilization.
    \3\ Daniel Funke, ``Fact Check: How We Know the 2020 Election 
Results Were Legitimate, Not `Rigged' as Donald Trump Claims,'' USA 
Today, January 6, 2022, https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/factcheck/
2022/01/06/fact-check-donald-trump-2020-election-results/9115875002/; 
``Joint Statement from Elections Infrastructure Government Coordinating 
Council & the Election Infrastructure Sector Coordinating Executive 
Committees,'' Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, 
November 12, 2020, accessed April 8, 2022, https://www.cisa.gov/news/
2020/11/12/joint-statement-elections-infrastructure-government-
coordinating-council-election; and Brennan Center for Justice, It's 
Official: The Election Was Secure, 2020, https://www.brennancenter.org/
our-work/research-reports/its-official-election-was-secure.
    \4\ Donald Trump, interview by Maria Bartiromo, Sunday Morning 
Futures, Fox News, November 29, 2020, https://vimeo.com/485180163.
    \5\ ``Tweets of November 16, 2020,'' American Presidency Project, 
UC Santa Barbara, November 16, 2020, accessed April 8, 2022, https://
www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/tweets-november-16-2020.
    \6\ American Presidency Project, ``Tweets.''
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Part I of my testimony walks through evidence of how the Big Lie is 
driving two anti-democratic trends in the States: The swift, aggressive 
push to restrict access to voting rights and the novel push to enable 
partisan actors to interfere in election administration. In the 12 
months following the insurrection, 19 States passed 34 restrictive 
voting bills, or bills that make it more difficult to vote, according 
to the Brennan Center's count.\7\ This was a significant escalation 
over years past. At the same time, State lawmakers pressed a new 
species of legislation-election sabotage bills--which enable partisan 
actors to interfere with or manipulate elections by changing who runs 
elections, counts the votes, and how. At least 11 election sabotage 
laws passed in 9 States in 2021.\8\ This anti-democratic push continues 
today; as of the Brennan Center's January 14, 2022 count, State 
lawmakers had introduced, pre-filed, or carried over more than 250 
restrictive voting bills \9\ and 41 election sabotage bills.\10\ These 
bills are much more closely connected to the push to overturn the 2020 
election than many realize.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \7\ Brennan Center for Justice, Voting Laws Roundup: December 2021, 
2021, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/voting-
laws-roundup-december-2021.
    \8\ Will Wilder, Derek Tisler, and Wendy R. Weiser, The Election 
Sabotage Scheme and How Congress Can Stop It 2021, Brennan Center for 
Justice, 3-6, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/
election-sabotage-scheme-and-how-congress-can-stop-it.
    \9\ Brennan Center for Justice, Voting Laws Roundup: February 2022, 
2022, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/voting-
laws-roundup-february-2022.
    \10\ Brennan Center, Voting Laws Roundup: February 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    My testimony will establish, first, that many of these new 
restrictive voting and election sabotage bills stem directly from the 
false allegations made in lawsuits brought by former President Trump's 
campaign and his supporters in their bid to change the 2020 election 
results. Second, it will demonstrate that the State lawmakers leading 
this legislative charge are among the same individuals who rejected the 
2020 election results. Almost all of them made public statements 
connecting their support for restrictive voting legislation to 
disinformation about the legitimacy of the 2020 election or wide-spread 
voter fraud. Already, the voting legislation that they succeeded in 
passing is creating tangible, negative effects on voters and 
disproportionately impacting voters of color.
    Part II of my testimony will describe two ways in which the Big Lie 
is driving attacks on impartial election administration. First, false 
claims about voter fraud and the legitimacy of the 2020 election are 
triggering attacks on our Nation's election administrators, leading an 
unprecedented number to contemplate quitting. A recent Brennan Center 
survey found that 1 in 6 election officials have experienced threats 
because of their job, and nearly 1 in 3 know of at least one colleague 
who has left their position due to safety concerns, increased threats, 
or intimidation.\11\ Second, my testimony lays out how the Big Lie is 
politicizing election administration in other ways. Among other things, 
2022 candidates for election administration positions are embracing 
election denial in their pitch to voters and donors. Races that feature 
election denial have seen massive increases in contributions, 
particularly from out-of-State donors. These trends pose a serious risk 
to impartial election administration in America.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \11\ Brennan Center for Justice, Local Election Officials Survey 
(March 2022) 2022, 6, 19, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/
research-reports/local-election-officials-survey-march-2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In short, there is ample evidence that the disinformation that 
fueled the January 6th insurrection continues to undermine our election 
system. With 2022 primaries in progress, and the 2024 Presidential 
election around the corner, the dangers to American democracy loom 
large.
    This Committee's work is critical to repairing the breach in the 
fabric of our Nation caused by the January 6th insurrection. It is 
critical to ensuring that the perpetrators of the violent insurrection 
are held accountable, and its victims receive justice. It also is 
critical to ensuring that this reprehensible history does not repeat 
itself. And it is critical to ensuring the that the Big Lie that fueled 
the insurrection does not continue to grow and further damage our 
democracy.
    i. the same election denial claims and rhetoric that fueled the 
    insurrection are driving damaging vote suppression and election 
                            sabotage efforts
    Since the 2020 election, the country has witnessed two aggressive, 
anti-democratic developments in State legislatures. First, efforts to 
suppress voting have soared. In 2021 alone, at least 19 States passed 
34 restrictive voting laws, or laws that make it more difficult to vote 
\12\--the largest number that the Brennan Center has seen in any year 
since it first began tracking voting legislation in 2011.\13\ Indeed, 
between 2011 and 2021, at least 33 States passed 97 restrictive voting 
bills, and more than a third of those laws passed last year alone.\14\ 
This legislative push was Nation-wide; overall, legislators introduced 
more than 400 restrictive voting bills in 49 States in 2021.\15\ This 
trend continues in 2022. As of the Brennan Center's January 14, 2022 
count, State lawmakers had introduced, pre-filed, or carried over more 
than 250 restrictive voting bills.\16\ The provisions in these bills 
range from curtailing access to mail voting and enacting new or 
stricter voter ID requirements, to imposing new barriers for voters and 
limiting or eliminating same-day voter registration.\17\ These numbers 
continue to grow.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \12\ Brennan Center, Voting Laws Roundup: December 2021.
    \13\ Brennan Center, Voting Laws Roundup: December 2021.
    \14\ Brennan Center, Voting Laws Roundup: December 2021; Brennan 
Center for Justice, Voting Laws Roundup 2020, 2020, https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/voting-laws-roundup-
2020-0; Brennan Center for Justice, Voting Laws Roundup 2019, 2019, 
https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/voting-laws-
roundup-2019; Brennan Center for Justice, Voting Laws Roundup 2018, 
2018, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/voting-
laws-roundup-2018; Brennan Center for Justice, Voting Laws Roundup 
2017, 2017, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/
voting-laws-roundup-2017; Brennan Center for Justice, Voting Laws 
Roundup 2016, 2016, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-
reports/voting-laws-roundup-2016; Brennan Center for Justice, Voting 
Laws Roundup 2015, 2015, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/
research-reports/voting-laws-roundup-2015; Brennan Center for Justice, 
Voting Laws Roundup 2014, 2014, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/
research-reports/voting-laws-roundup-2014; Brennan Center for Justice, 
Voting Laws Roundup 2013, 2013, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/
research-reports/voting-laws-roundup-2013; Brennan Center for Justice, 
Election 2012: Voting Laws Roundup, 2012, https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/election-2012-voting-
laws-roundup; and Wendy R. Weiser and Nhu-Y Ngo, Voting Rights in 2011: 
A Legislative Round-Up, 2011, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/
research-reports/voting-rights-2011-legislative-round.
    \15\ Brennan Center, Voting Laws Roundup: December 2021.
    \16\ Brennan Center, Voting Laws Roundup: February 2022.
    \17\ Brennan Center, Voting Laws Roundup: December 2021; and 
Brennan Center, Voting Laws Roundup: February 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Second, States have seen a dramatic spike in legislation that would 
enable partisan actors to meddle in election administration and vote 
counting processes--otherwise known as ``election sabotage'' bills. The 
Brennan Center identified at least 11 election sabotage laws passed in 
9 States in 2021,\18\ including laws in 2 States that allow partisan 
actors to remove election officials from their positions and replace 
them close to an election,\19\ laws in 6 States that create criminal 
penalties for election officials who take certain steps to make it 
easier for individuals to vote,\20\ and laws in 3 States that empower 
partisan poll watchers to interfere in the vote-counting process.\21\ 
Our January 14, 2022 count found that legislators in at least 13 States 
already had pre-filed and introduced an unprecedented 41 such bills 
that would threaten the people and processes that make elections 
work.\22\ These provisions range from allowing any citizen to initiate 
or conduct biased election audits; to imposing new criminal or civil 
penalties on election officials for making unintentional errors; to 
allowing partisan actors to remove election officials from office.\23\ 
These numbers also continue to grow.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \18\ Wilder, Tisler, and Weiser, Election Sabotage Scheme, 3-6.
    \19\ Wilder, Tisler, and Weiser, Election Sabotage Scheme, 3.
    \20\ Wilder, Tisler, and Weiser, Election Sabotage Scheme, 5.
    \21\ Wilder, Tisler, and Weiser, Election Sabotage Scheme, 5.
    \22\ Brennan Center, Voting Laws Roundup: February 2022.
    \23\ Brennan Center, Voting Laws Roundup: February 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The Brennan Center has been chronicling and studying these negative 
developments. Specifically, two recent analyses demonstrate that the 
same false allegations of a stolen election that drove the insurrection 
are driving these on-going efforts to undermine voting rights and 
sabotage electoral processes. One analysis examined the text of 
restrictive voting and election sabotage legislation to show that it 
closely maps onto the same allegations made in lawsuits brought by 
former President Trump and his supporters in the wake of the 2020 
election--all of which were unsuccessful. The second analysis reviewed 
the rhetoric of those legislators leading restrictive voting and 
election sabotage efforts to establish that these bills rest upon the 
same debunked rhetoric of wide-spread voter fraud that fueled the 
insurrection.
A. There Is Strong Evidence That the False Claims That Fueled the 
        Insurrection Are Fueling Vote Suppression and Election Sabotage 
        Legislation
    For more than a decade, the Brennan Center has tracked and reported 
on new laws that make it more difficult for individuals to vote.\24\ 
From the outset, baseless claims of voter fraud fueled this legislative 
movement.\25\ Following the 2020 election, former President Trump and 
his supporters used this same rhetoric to conjure up claims of a 
``stolen'' election and launch a full-scale effort to overturn the 
Presidential election results in key States, including through a flurry 
of unsuccessful lawsuits discussed in section i below. In the wake of 
that failed effort, election denial proponents began rapidly 
introducing and passing State bills that restrict access to voting and 
make it easier for partisan actors to meddle in election 
administration. Our research demonstrates that this unprecedented 
legislative push was driven in significant part by claims that the 2020 
election was stolen, as reflected by the similarity between the false 
claims made in lawsuits and the new legislative provisions, as well as 
by the public statements made by legislative sponsors concerning the 
legitimacy of the 2020 election and wide-spread voter fraud.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \24\ Brennan Center, Voting Laws Roundup: February 2022.
    \25\ Brennan Center for Justice, Debunking the Voter Fraud Myth, 
2017, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/
debunking-voter-fraud-myth; Brennan Center, Refuting the Myth of Voter 
Fraud; and ``The Myth of Voter Fraud,'' Brennan Center for Justice, 
accessed April 8, 2022, https://www.brennancenter.org/issues/ensure-
every-american-can-vote/vote-suppression/myth-voter-fraud.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    It is well-established that voter fraud, while pernicious, is 
vanishingly rare in U.S. elections.\26\ Courts universally rejected 
lawsuits seeking to overturn the 2020 election result based upon false 
theories of fraud.\27\ Election officials and experts of all political 
persuasions overwhelmingly agree that the 2020 election was one of the 
most secure in modern history.\28\ Nevertheless, false claims about 
wide-spread voter fraud and the legitimacy of the 2020 election 
continue to drive legislation and policy efforts in the States.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \26\ Brennan Center, Refuting the Myth of Voter Fraud.
    \27\ Rosalind S. Helderman and Elise Viebeck, `` `The Last Wall': 
How Dozens of Judges across the Political Spectrum Rejected Trump's 
Efforts to Overturn the Election,'' Washington Post, December 12, 2020, 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/judges-trump-election-lawsuits/
2020/12/12/e3a57224-3a72-11eb-98c4-
25dc9f4987e8story.html?utmcampaign=wptodayshead- 
lines&utmmedium=email&utmsource=newsletter&wpisrc=nlheadlines.
    \28\ Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, ``Joint 
Statement''; and Brennan Center, It's Official: The Election Was 
Secure.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
            i. Comparison of False Legal Claims about the 2020 Election 
                    and State Legislation Introduced and Passed in 2021
    In the days before and after the 2020 election, former President 
Trump's campaign and his supporters filed a blizzard of unsuccessful 
lawsuits in an attempt to alter the election's outcome.\29\ These 
lawsuits made a variety of allegations that the election was rife with 
fraud and irregularities. A recent Brennan Center analysis demonstrates 
that the false allegations contained in these suits map directly onto 
many provisions in the wave of new restrictive voting and election 
sabotage measures passed in 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \29\ ``Voting Rights Litigation Tracker 2020,'' Brennan Center for 
Justice, July 28, 2020, accessed April 8, 2022, https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/court-cases/voting-rights-litigation-
tracker-2020.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The analysis focuses on those lawsuits that raised false claims of 
fraud and attempted to disrupt or overturn the election, which were 
filed in 17 States.\30\ Although courts rejected these suits,\31\ in 
2021 legislators in 16 of the 17 States where suits were filed 
introduced bills to restrict access to voting.\32\ The majority of 
lawsuits filed before or immediately after the 2020 election centered 
on allegations that the mail voting process was not secure, despite 
well-settled evidence to the contrary.\33\ Not surprisingly, the most 
common theme of new restrictive voting legislation last year was, in 
turn, an effort to restrict mail voting.\34\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \30\ Katie Friel and Will Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation 
in Anti-Voter Lawsuits and Anti-Voter Legislation, Brennan Center for 
Justice (forthcoming), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-
reports/finding-same-misinformation-anti-voter-lawsuits-and-anti-voter. 
The Brennan Center's analysis focused exclusively on those 2020 
election lawsuits that relied on false claims about voter fraud and 
sought to disrupt or overturn the election. The analysis included 
lawsuits filed before the election that relied on false fraud claims 
and sought to enjoin certain methods of voting or have certain 
categories of votes cast out. It also included lawsuits filed after the 
election that used false claims of fraud to seek to invalidate certain 
categories of votes or overturn the election entirely. The analysis 
excluded cases filed by pro se litigants that made vague allegations of 
fraud that were not specific to any State or jurisdiction.
    \31\ Helderman and Viebeck, `` `The Last Wall.' ''
    \32\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation.
    \33\ Wendy R. Weiser, ``The False Narrative of Vote-by-Mail 
Fraud,'' Brennan Center for Justice, April 10, 2020, https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/analysis-opinion/false-narrative-vote-
mail-fraud.
    \34\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In fact, the connections between the 2020 litigation claims and the 
2021 restrictive voting bills were much more specific than that. In 15 
of the 16 States with both litigation and legislation, at least one 
provision in a new restrictive voting bill can be directly traced to a 
specific false claim made in a 2020 election lawsuit in that State.\35\ 
The similarities remain just as strong when looking only at the most 
extreme category of lawsuits: Those filed after Election Day seeking to 
overturn the results or block certification of an election. These 
lawsuits, filed in at least 12 States, relied heavily upon spurious 
claims of fraud that courts ultimately rejected.\36\ Yet in 11 of these 
12 States, a provision contained in a 2021 restrictive voting bill 
directly mirrors false claims made in those suits.\37\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \35\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation.
    \36\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation.
    \37\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In Arizona, for example, one 2020 lawsuit contested the results of 
the Presidential election based in part upon an unproven claim that 
out-of-State voters cast ballots in Arizona.\38\ The case was 
dismissed, but in 2021 Arizona legislators introduced a bill to expand 
voter roll purges in an effort to remove hypothetical out-of-State 
voters from the voter rolls.\39\ Similarly, multiple cases in Wisconsin 
challenged election officials' decision to accept absentee ballots 
without a photo ID during the pandemic based upon the State's exemption 
to the voter ID requirement for individuals who are ``indefinitely 
confined.''\40\ In 2021, legislators introduced two bills to repeal the 
exemption.\41\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \38\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation; and Pet. 
For Elec. Cont., Stevenson v. Ducey, No. CV2020-096490 (Ariz. Super. 
Ct. 2020).
    \39\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation; and H.B. 
2358, 55th Leg., Reg. Sess. (Ariz. 2021).
    \40\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation; and Pls.' 
Compl., Feehan v. Wis. Elections Commission, 2020 WL 7630410 (E.D. Wis. 
2020).
    \41\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation. S.B. 204, 
2021 Leg., Reg. Sess. (Wis. 2021). One of the two bills (Wis. S.B. 204) 
was passed by the legislature but subsequently vetoed by the Governor.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In some States, the connections between 2020 litigation claims and 
2021 legislative efforts were especially pronounced. In Georgia, for 
instance, litigation pushed four spurious claims to cast doubt upon the 
election results: (i) Poll watchers were deliberately blocked from 
observing ballot processing, creating doubt in the accuracy of the 
counting process; (ii) the State's use of drop boxes increased the risk 
of fraud; (iii) absentee ballots generally threaten election integrity 
and lead to fraud; and (iv) private foundations used grant funding to 
gain undue influence over election officials.\42\ These claims were 
unsuccessful, and yet the Georgia legislature reinforced them by 
signing into law Senate Bill 202, which: (i) Expands legal rights of 
poll watchers to observe elections without constraints by election 
administrators; (ii) limits the availability of drop boxes; (iii) 
significantly restricts access to mail voting by imposing stricter 
identification requirements for absentee voters and narrows the window 
to apply for absentee ballots; and (iv) prohibits local election 
administrators from accepting funding from private sources.\43\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \42\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation.
    \43\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation; and S.B. 
202, 156th Gen. Assemb., Reg. Sess. (Ga. 2021).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Pennsylvania illustrates the connection between baseless lawsuits 
challenging the integrity of the 2020 election and 2021 election 
sabotage provisions. Many of the legal challenges in Pennsylvania 
falsely claimed that the State's certification of the 2020 election was 
somehow invalid.\44\ Although unfounded, these claims did influence 
Pennsylvania legislators, who introduced at least five resolutions in 
2021 directly aimed at invalidating the results of the 2020 
election.\45\ Legal challenges in the State also made allegations of 
fraud as to the State's ``notice and cure'' practice, by which election 
officials notify voters if there is an issue with their mail-in ballot 
and provide the voter with an opportunity to fix the mistake.\46\ While 
those claims were rejected, legislators subsequently introduced a bill 
to prohibit election officials from providing any opportunity for 
voters to cure their mail ballots.\47\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \44\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation.
    \45\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation.
    \46\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation.
    \47\ Friel and Wilder, Finding the Same Misinformation.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
            ii. Analysis of Public Statements by Proponents of 
                    Restrictive Voting and Election Sabotage 
                    Legislation
    A second recent Brennan Center analysis examined public statements 
made by sponsors and key proponents of restrictive voting and election 
sabotage legislation in the States and found that those sponsors 
justified their legislation using the same discredited claims of a 
wide-spread fraud and a stolen election that fueled the insurrection. 
The analysis focused on two sets of public rhetoric: (i) Statements 
made by the chief sponsors and co-sponsors of the 13 most restrictive 
new laws passed in 2021; and (ii) statements concerning all 25 such 
bills introduced in Georgia and all 31 introduced in Pennsylvania in 
2021, as these two States saw some of the most aggressive restrictive 
voting and election sabotage bills.\48\ In total, the analysis 
uncovered relevant statements for 58 bills \49\ made in legislative 
proceedings, at campaign events, to reporters, and on social media, 
with striking results.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \48\ Andrew Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric from Sponsors of State 
Voter Suppression Legislation, Brennan Center for Justice 
(forthcoming), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/
election-denial-rhetoric-sponsors-state-voter-suppression-legislation. 
The analysis excluded legislation with more minor voting restrictions 
and mixed legislation that included both provisions that restricted 
voting access and expanded it.
    \49\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric. In total, the analysis 
reviewed 68 bills (one of which is a Georgia bill that was counted both 
in the list of the most restrictive new laws and in the list of 
restrictive voting bills in Georgia). Fifty-eight of these 68 bills 
contained relevant public statements from their sponsors.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    We found, first, that the vast majority of the 58 bills were 
sponsored by legislators who publicly questioned the validity of the 
2020 election, including the chief sponsors of 10 of the 13 most 
restrictive new State laws.\50\ For example, Arkansas Representative 
Mark Lowery, who served as the chief sponsor of legislation enhancing 
voter ID requirements,\51\ notably stated that he ``believe[s] Donald 
Trump was elected President'' in 2020 and signed a letter asking for 
audits of the 2020 election in every State and decertification of any 
result declared ``prematurely and inaccurately.''\52\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \50\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \51\ H.B. 1112, 93d Gen. Assemb., Reg. Sess. (Ark. 2021).
    \52\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Similarly, sponsors of 20 of the 25 restrictive bills introduced in 
Georgia last year questioned the election's outcome, mostly by 
suggesting that the surge in absentee ballots in 2020 led to fraud.\53\ 
Representative Barry Fleming, chair of the Georgia House Special 
Committee on Elections formed in the wake of the 2020 election, 
suggested in an op-ed that unreliable mail ballots changed the outcome 
of certain races in 2020.\54\ He argued that ``Democrats [were] relying 
on the always-suspect absentee balloting process to inch ahead in 
Georgia and other close States'' and proceeded to compare mail ballots 
to ``the shady part of town down near the docks you do not want to 
wander into because the chance of being shanghaied is 
significant.''\55\ He added: ``Expect the Georgia Legislature to 
address that in our next session in January [2021].''\56\ 
Representative Fleming later shepherded Senate Bill 202--an omnibus 
vote suppression and election sabotage package--through the House and 
served as the lead sponsor on two other restrictive bills.\57\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \53\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \54\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric; and Barry Fleming, ``Guest 
Column: Republican Party Wins on Election Day, and Future Is Bright,'' 
Augusta Chronicle, November 15, 2020, https://www.augustachronicle.com/
story/opinion/columns/guest/2020/11/15/guest-column-republican-party-
wins-on-election-day-and-future-is-bright/43155971/.
    \55\ Fleming, ``Guest Column: Republican Party Wins.''
    \56\ Fleming, ``Guest Column: Republican Party Wins.''
    \57\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric; and S.B. 202, 156th Gen. 
Assemb., Reg. Sess. (Ga. 2021).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    And in Pennsylvania, sponsors of 25 of the 31 restrictive bills 
introduced in 2021 questioned the 2020 election's integrity.\58\ 
Representative Russ Diamond, for instance, wrote a Facebook post 
alleging that there were ``troubling discrepancies between the numbers 
of total votes counted and total numbers of voters who voted in the 
2020 General Election.''\59\ He also believed that officials counted 
200,000 extra votes and considered certifying Pennsylvania's election 
results to have been ``absolutely premature, unconfirmed, and in 
error.''\60\ Representative Diamond subsequently sponsored five bills 
to restrict voting access in 2021 and served as the lead sponsor on 
four.\61\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \58\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \59\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \60\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \61\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Second, sponsors of many vote suppression and election sabotage 
bills introduced last year expressly connected those bills to false 
claims about the 2020 election. Sponsors of 6 of the 13 most 
restrictive bills made connections between voter fraud and the bill at 
hand.\62\ For example, when introducing Senate Bill 1111, which would 
have limited the types of addresses at which voters register to vote 
and otherwise enhances ID requirements,\63\ Texas Senator Paul 
Bettencourt maintained that the ``November 2020 election demonstrated 
the lack of transparency and lack of integrity within the election 
process.''\64\ Along with six other ``election integrity'' bills that 
he filed, Senator Bettencourt posited that Senate Bill 1111 would help 
``to make sure the problems we faced in 2020 will not happen 
again.''\65\ In Pennsylvania, Senator Doug Mastriano--who was present 
on Capitol grounds on January 6, held hearings in which Rudy Giuliani 
spread false claims of voter fraud, attempted to lead a partisan audit 
of the 2020 election, and reportedly claimed that he saw ``better 
elections in Afghanistan'' \66\--went on to co-author a memorandum in 
support of Senate Bill 515, which would repeal no-excuse mail 
voting.\67\ The memo echoed his earlier rhetoric by claiming that the 
bill would ``once again restore confidence in our democracy and shine a 
light into the shadow of doubt that has been cast over Americans' most 
democratic process.''\68\ Likewise in Georgia, sponsors of 9 of the 
State's 25 restrictive bills argued that the provisions in those bills 
were intended to address purported 2020 election fraud.\69\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \62\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \63\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric; and S.B. 1111, 87th Leg., 
Reg. Sess. (Tex. 2021).
    \64\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \65\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \66\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \67\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \68\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \69\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Finally, and not surprisingly, our analysis found that sponsors of 
every piece of introduced and enacted legislation publicly justified 
their legislation as measures to address voter fraud and election 
integrity--often in language mirroring that used by proponents of 
conspiracy theories relating to the 2020 election.\70\ This language 
included, for example, trying to ``restore or confirm confidence in the 
election process'' or creating ``an election where legal votes count, 
and illegal votes do not.''\71\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \70\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
    \71\ Garber, Election Denial Rhetoric.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 ______
                                 
    In short, the connections uncovered by the Brennan Center's 
research demonstrate that the same election denial that drove 
litigation and rhetoric to overturn the 2020 election result played a 
critical role in driving restrictive voting and election sabotage 
efforts in 2021.
B. Restrictive Voting Legislation Fueled by Disinformation About the 
        2020 Election and Voter Fraud Is Harming Voters, and 
        Disproportionately Voters of Color
    The spike in restrictive voting legislation in 2021 already is 
harming voters, with a disproportionate amount of this harm falling on 
voters of color. First, existing research has found measurable, 
negative turnout effects for many of the types of provisions passed in 
2021.\72\ For example, multiple social science studies have found that 
measures that create stricter voter ID requirements or limit polling 
place access markedly depress voter turnout, with larger effects for 
voters of color.\73\ Other studies have found that reducing early in-
person voting opportunities can reduce turnout,\74\ as do earlier 
registration deadlines \75\ and policies leading to long lines on 
Election Day.\76\ Where empirical studies have not found a negative 
turnout impact, that does not mean harm is not occurring, but rather 
that it cannot be measured by existing empirical tools--or that large 
amounts of resources have been invested to overcome these barriers and 
maintain turnout levels.\77\ Already, the new law led to the rejection 
of thousands of mail-in ballots in the March 2022 primary election.\78\ 
In Texas's largest counties, rejection rates ranged from between 6- and 
almost 22%--significantly higher than the State's 1% rejection rate in 
the 2020 election cycle.\79\ Similarly, after the passage of mail 
voting restrictions in Georgia Senate Bill 202, voters in the State's 
2021 local elections were 45 times more likely to have their mail 
ballot applications rejected--and ultimately not vote as a result--than 
in 2020.\80\ These examples represent just a small slice of the surge 
in new restrictive voting legislation.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \72\ See, e.g., Brennan Center for Justice, The Impact of Voter 
Suppression on Communities of Color, 2022, https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/impact-voter-
suppression-communities-color.
    \73\ Brennan Center, Impact of Voter Suppression on Communities of 
Color.
    \74\ Hannah L. Walker, Michael C. Herron, and Daniel A. Smith, 
``Early Voting Changes and Voter Turnout: North Carolina in the 2016 
General Election,'' Political Behavior 41 (2019); and Ethan Kaplan and 
Haishan Yuan, ``Early Voting Laws, Voter Turnout, and Partisan Vote 
Composition: Evidence from Ohio,'' American Economic Journal: Applied 
Economics 12(1) (2020).
    \75\ Greg Vonnahme, ``Registration Deadlines and Turnout in 
Context,'' Political Behavior 34 (2012).
    \76\ Stephen Pettigrew, ``The Downstream Consequences of Long 
Waits: How Lines at the Precinct Depress Future Turnout,'' Electoral 
Studies 71 (2021).
    \77\ S.B. 1., 87th Leg., 1st Spec. Sess. (Tex. 2021)
    \78\ Kevin Morris, Coryn Grange, and Zoe Merriman, The Impact of 
Restrictive Voting Legislation, Brennan Center for Justice, 2022, 
https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/impact-
restrictive-voting-legislation.
    \79\ Morris, Grange, and Merriman, Restrictive Voting Legislation.
    \80\ Ryan Little and Ari Berman, ``We Uncovered How Many Georgians 
Were Disenfranchised by GOP Voting Restrictions. It's Staggering.'' 
Mother Jones, January 28, 2022, https://www.motherjones.com/politics/
2022/01/gop-voting-law-disenfranshised-georgia-voters/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Second, as new laws begin to take effect, there is mounting 
evidence that they already are disenfranchising voters. In Texas, for 
example, Senate Bill 1 creates a more stringent voter ID requirement 
pursuant to which voters must provide their driver's license number or 
partial social security number that matches the county's own files.
    Further, these new laws target and fall most harshly on voters of 
color. There is a growing body of social science research proving that 
restrictive voting laws disproportionately impact voters of color.\81\ 
There also is mounting evidence that the laws passed this year are 
especially like to have, and already are having, that effect.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \81\ Brennan Center, Impact of Voter Suppression on Communities of 
Color.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    For example, new laws making mail voting more difficult target and 
already are harming voters of color. Black voters--who make up about a 
third of the electorate in Georgia--comprised half of all late ballot 
application rejections in the State during 2021 local elections.\82\ In 
Florida, an analysis of drop box usage amongst different groups 
revealed that the State's new restrictions on this voting method will 
impose greater burdens on Black voters than on other groups.\83\ And in 
Arizona, the State's shorter window for voters to add missing 
signatures to mail ballots will especially harm Navajo voters, many of 
whom would have to travel hundreds of miles to an election office to 
add their signature.\84\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \82\ Morris, Grange, and Merriman, Restrictive Voting Legislation.
    \83\ Morris, Grange, and Merriman, Restrictive Voting Legislation; 
and S.B. 90, 2021 Leg., Reg. Sess. (Fla. 2021).
    \84\ Morris, Grange, and Merriman, Restrictive Voting Legislation; 
S.B. 1003, 55th Leg., Reg. Sess. (Ariz. 2021); and Navajo Nation, 
Office of the President and Vice President, ``Navajo Nation Leaders 
Urge Arizona Governor to Veto Voter Suppression Bill,'' news release, 
April 30, 2021, https://www.navajo-nsn.gov/News%20Releases/OPVP/2021/
Apr/FOR%20IMMEDIATE- 
%20RELEASE%20%20Navajo%20Nation%20leaders%20urge%20Arizona%20Governor%20
to%- 20veto%20voter%20suppression%20bill.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    There also is significant evidence that laws restricting voters 
from receiving help when voting or registering to vote 
disproportionately impact voters of color.\85\ Black and Latino voters 
are more likely to depend upon the help of third-party organizations to 
register and vote in Florida.\86\ As a result, the State's new limits 
on these organizations will create a disproportionate impact on them as 
compared to white voters.\87\ Similarly, many Native American voters in 
Montana rely upon paid ballot collectors, as they often have infrequent 
mail service and limited access to locations at which they can submit 
their ballot.\88\ A new State law bans the use of paid ballot 
collectors, creating a more burdensome voting process for many Native 
Americans, especially those with disabilities or who may lack access to 
transportation.\89\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \85\ Morris, Grange, and Merriman, Restrictive Voting Legislation.
    \86\ Morris, Grange, and Merriman, Restrictive Voting Legislation.
    \87\ Morris, Grange, and Merriman, Restrictive Voting Legislation; 
and Fla. S.B. 90.
    \88\ Morris, Grange, and Merriman, Restrictive Voting Legislation.
    \89\ Morris, Grange, and Merriman, Restrictive Voting Legislation; 
and H.B. 530, 2021 Leg., Reg. Sess. (Mont. 2021).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Further, new voter identification laws will disproportionately harm 
voters of color. For example, although Black registered voters account 
for only 30% of Georgia's registered voters, they comprise more than 
half of those registrants without a qualifying State ID number or 
driver's license under Senate Bill 202.\90\ This is consistent with 
existing research that shows the racial turnout gap grows when States 
enact strict voter ID laws.\91\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \90\ Morris, Grange, and Merriman, Restrictive Voting Legislation.
    \91\ Brennan Center, Impact of Voter Suppression on Communities of 
Color.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    These disparate impacts are not coincidental. There is a growing 
body of evidence that the push to restrict access to voting in the 
States is inextricable from race. Social science studies over the past 
decade have linked restrictive voting legislation to increases in 
political participation or population growth by voters of color.\92\ 
Forthcoming Brennan Center research provides evidence that the 
disinformation fueling restrictive voting legislation is perceived as 
race-based and that racial resentment is one of the most significant 
factors driving efforts to make voting more difficult.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \92\ Brennan Center, Impact of Voter Suppression on Communities of 
Color; Daniel R. Biggers and Michael J. Hanmer, ``Understanding the 
Adoption of Voter Identification Laws in the American States,'' 
American Politics Research 45 (2017); Keith G. Bentele and Erin E. 
O'Brien, ``Jim Crow 2.0? Why States Consider and Adopt Restrictive 
Voter Access Policies,'' Perspectives on Politics 11 (2013); and Angela 
Behrens, Christopher Uggen, and Jeff Manza, ``Ballot Manipulation and 
the `Menace of Negro Domination': Racial Threat and Felon 
Disenfranchisement in the United States, 1850-2002,'' American Journal 
of Sociology 109 (2003).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ii. the same election denial that drove the insurrection threatens 
                   impartial election administrators
    In addition to these on-going threats to voting rights and 
electoral processes, disinformation about the 2020 election and voter 
fraud also is driving a wave of attacks on impartial election 
administrators. This risks triggering an election official retention 
crisis as experienced and capable officials leave or are forced out of 
their positions. Election denial also is politicizing--and 
nationalizing--the races by which these election officials are chosen, 
raising fears about who will replace the officials from both parties 
\93\ who worked tirelessly to hold the line against election sabotage 
during the 2020 election.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \93\ The 2020 Democracy Fund/Reed College Survey of Local Election 
Officials found that 44% of local election officials surveyed 
identified as Republican, compared to 33% who identified as Democrat 
and 22% who described themselves as Independent (among the 72% of 
respondents who shared their party identification). Paul Gronke et al., 
``Pursuing Diversity and Representation Among Local Election 
Officials,'' Democracy Fund, May 20, 2021, https://democracyfund.org/
idea/pursuing-diversity-and-representation-among-local-election-
officials/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
A. Disinformation About the 2020 Election and Voter Fraud Is Driving 
        Attacks on Election Officials and Pushing Them out of Their 
        Positions
    Election officials are facing unprecedented levels of threats and 
harassment. These attacks, which range from vigilante threats and 
intimidation to overt political interference and threats of 
prosecution, are forcing impartial, experienced election workers across 
the country to question their personal safety. Many of these attacks 
stem from the same election denial that fueled both the insurrection 
and the surge in restrictive voter and election sabotage legislation 
discussed above.
            i. Vigilante Threats and Harassment
    In the wake of the 2020 election, threats and harassment against 
State and local election officials have skyrocketed.\94\ A recent 
survey of local election officials conducted by the Brennan Center 
reveals that 1 in 6 local election officials have experienced threats, 
ranging from racist and gendered harassment to death threats that named 
the election official's spouse and children.\95\ More than 3 in 4 local 
election officials said that threats have increased in recent years, 
and nearly 1 in 3 know of at least one election worker who has left 
their job at least in part because of fears for their safety.\96\ These 
findings reaffirm previous research conducted by the Brennan Center, 
which detailed patterns of harassment and interference directed at all 
levels of State and local election administration following the 2020 
election.\97\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \94\ Brennan Center for Justice and Bipartisan Policy Center, 
Election Officials Under Attack, 2021, https://www.brennancenter.org/
our-work/policy-solutions/election-officials-under-attack, 3-5.
    \95\ Brennan Center, Local Election Officials Survey, 6; Linda So 
and Jason Szep, ``Exclusive--Two Election Workers Break Silence after 
Enduring Trump Backers' Threats,'' Reuters, December 10, 2021, https://
www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-threats-georgia-exclusiv-
idCAKBN2IP0VZ; and James Verini, ``He Wanted to Count Every Vote in 
Philadelphia. His Party Had Other Ideas,'' New York Times Magazine, 
December 16, 2021, https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/16/magazine/trump-
election-philadelphia-republican.html.
    \96\ Brennan Center, Local Election Officials Survey, 5, 19.
    \97\ Brennan Center and Bipartisan Policy Center, Election 
Officials Under Attack.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Many of these attacks are traceable to the same stolen election 
allegations that fueled the insurrection. The violent threats against 
election workers have often explicitly invoked the baseless narratives 
of wide-spread election fraud and a stolen election. One email 
threatening to bomb polling places in Georgia declared that ``no one at 
these places will be spared unless and until Trump is guaranteed to be 
POTUS again.''\98\ In another case, a 63-year-old city clerk--who now 
carries a handgun out of fear for her safety--recalls a man who 
harassed her on the street and yelled ``why did you allow Trump to 
lose? Why did you cheat?''\99\ Election officials themselves have 
attributed increasing threats against them to disinformation; nearly 2 
in 3 respondents in the Brennan Center's survey of local election 
officials believe that false information is making their job more 
dangerous.\100\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \98\ Linda So, ``Trump-Inspired Death Threats Are Terrorizing 
Election Workers,'' Reuters, June 11, 2021, https://www.reuters.com/
investigates/special-report/usa-trump-georgia-threats/.
    \99\ Kyung Lah and Kim Berryman, ``This Grandmother Has Overseen 
Dozens of Elections in Her City. And after 2020, She Carries a Gun,'' 
CNN, January 21, 2022, https://www.cnn.com/2022/01/21/politics/
michigan-wisconsin-election-worker-intimidation/index.html.
    \100\ Brennan Center, Local Election Officials Survey, 12.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Threats and harassment driven by election denial have continued at 
a dangerous pace into 2022. A recent POLITICO review across major 
social media platforms revealed a ``flood'' of recent posts promoting 
2020 stolen election theories, including posts that used violent 
imagery and explicitly discussed attacking election officials.\101\ In 
February, the Department of Homeland Security issued an advisory 
warning that election fraud disinformation could motivate violent 
attacks on democratic institutions, including election workers, in the 
months preceding the 2022 midterm elections.\102\ As 2022 elections 
approach, these threats continue to directly impact the lives of 
election officials.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \101\ Mark Scott and Rebecca Kern, ``The Online World Still Can't 
Quit the `Big Lie,' '' POLITICO, January 6, 2022, https://
www.politico.com/news/2022/01/06/social-media-donald-trump-jan-6-
526562.
    \102\ ``Summary of Terrorism Threat to the U.S. Homeland,'' 
Department of Homeland Security, last modified February 7, 2022, 
accessed April 8, 2022, https://www.dhs.gov/ntas/advisory/national-
terrorism-advisory-system-bulletin-february-07-2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
            ii. Political Interference and Threats of Prosecution
    The aftermath of the 2020 election also sparked a barrage of 
political attacks against election officials. These attacks included 
the widely-reported efforts by former President Trump and his 
supporters to overturn the election outcome in key swing States. Most 
notably, the former President attempted to pressure Georgia Secretary 
of State Brad Raffensperger, a Republican, to ``find 11,780 votes'' and 
illegitimately declare him the State's winner.\103\ In Michigan, he 
publicly pressured local and State officials to revoke their votes to 
certify the election for President Biden.\104\ These initial efforts to 
pressure election officials and sow distrust in the electoral system 
stem from the same false allegations of a stolen election that drove 
the insurrection.\105\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \103\ Amy Gardner and Paulina Firozi, ``Here's the Full Transcript 
and Audio of the Call Between Trump and Raffensperger,'' Washington 
Post, January 5, 2021, https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-
raffensperger-call-transcript-georgia-vote/2021/01/03/2768e0cc-4ddd-
11eb-83e3-322644d82356story.html.
    \104\ Maggie Haberman et al., ``Trump Targets Michigan in His Ploy 
to Subvert the Election,'' New York Times, November 19, 2020, https://
www.nytimes.com/2020/11/19/us/politics/trump-michigan-election.html.
    \105\ See Brennan Center and Bipartisan Policy Center, Election 
Officials Under Attack, 16-17; and Ann Gerhart, ``Election Results 
Under Attack: Here Are the Facts,'' Washington Post, March 11, 2021, 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/elections/interactive/2020/election-
integrity/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Even after the 2020 election result was definitively resolved, 
political meddling persisted in the form of unsubstantiated audits and 
recounts. In Maricopa County, Arizona Republican Party leaders 
organized a sham ``audit'' of the county's election results in an 
effort to discredit them.\106\ To this day, Republican leaders in 
Arizona continue to claim--without evidence--that election 
administrators mishandled thousands of ballots.\107\ The Arizona audit 
sparked copycat movements across the country, as the Wisconsin and 
Pennsylvania State legislatures ordered similar reviews of the 2020 
vote.\108\ As recently as September 2021, the Texas secretary of 
state's office announced a ``comprehensive forensic audit'' of the 2020 
results in four major counties.\109\ And in Nevada, the State's 
Republican Party compelled Republican Secretary of State Barbara 
Cegavske to review nearly 123,000 ballots based upon unfounded 
allegations of voter fraud.\110\ Secretary Cegavske's review, which 
consumed 125 hours of her staff's time, found no evidence of 
fraud.\111\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \106\ Elizabeth Howard and Gowri Ramachandran, ``Partisan Arizona 
Election `Audit' Was Flawed From the Start,'' Brennan Center for 
Justice, September 27, 2021, https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/
analysis-opinion/partisan-arizona-election-audit-was-flawed-start.
    \107\ Howard Fischer Capitol Media Services, ``Another Senate 
Subpoena Issued for Arizona 2020 Election Documents,'' Arizona Daily 
Star, March 21, 2022, https://tucson.com/news/state-and-regional/govt-
and-politics/another-senate-subpoena-issued-for-arizona-2020-election-
documents/articledcc76aaa-a96d-11ec-a17a-b7f87b1c1504.html.
    \108\ Michael Wines, ``Arizona's Criticized Election Review Nears 
End, but Copycats Are Just Getting Started,'' New York Times, September 
23, 2021, https://www.nytimes.com/2021/09/23/us/arizona-election-
review.html; Laurel White, ``Wisconsin's GOP-Backed Election 
Investigation Expanded over the Holidays,'' Wisconsin Public Radio, 
January 3, 2022, https://www.wpr.org/wisconsins-gop-backed-election-
investigation-expanded-over-holidays; and Sam Dunklau, ``Pa. Senate 
Election `Audit' Contract Doesn't Say If the Public Will See the 
Results,'' WITF, December 7, 2021, https://www.witf.org/2021/12/07/pa-
senate-election-probe-contract-doesnt-say-if-the-public-will-see-the-
results-among-other-things/.
    \109\ Reid J. Epstein, ``Texas, Under Pressure From Trump, 
Announces a `Full Forensic Audit' of the 2020 Election In Four 
Counties,'' New York Times, September 23, 2021, https://wwwnytimes.com/
2021/09/23/us/politics/texas-trump-election-audit.html.
    \110\ Jacob Solis, ``2020 Election Fraud Conspiracy Theories Remain 
Central to Many Republican Campaigns,'' Nevada Independent, October 17, 
2021, https://thenevadaindependent.com/article/2020-election-fraud-
conspiracy-theories-remain-central-to-many-republican-campaigns.
    \111\ Barbara K. Cegavske, secretary of state, and Mark A. 
Wlaschin, deputy secretary for elections, ``Re: Elections Integrity 
Violation Reports,'' (via email, Nevada Office of the Secretary of 
State: April 21, 2021), https://www.nvsos.gov/sos/home/
showpublisheddocument?id=9428.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    More disturbingly, election officials increasingly face threats in 
the form of criminal prosecution. Just recently, election officials in 
Wisconsin were threatened with jail time as part of a months-long, 
spurious review of the 2020 Presidential election.\112\ Michael 
Gableman, a former State Supreme Court justice leading the review for 
Republican legislators, issued the threat after the chairwoman of the 
State Elections Commission and several other officials refused to sit 
for secret, closed-door interviews with him and instead requested to 
sit for the interviews before a legislative committee.\113\ As 
discussed in Part I above, other States such as Texas and Arizona are 
passing laws that would impose criminal penalties on election officials 
for routine activities and unintentional mistakes.\114\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \112\ Patrick Marley, ``Wisconsin Republicans Seek to Jail More 
Officials as Part of Their Review of the 2020 Presidential Election,'' 
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, February 18, 2022, https://
www.jsonline.com/story/news/politics/2022/02/18/wisconsin-republicans-
michael-gableman-seeks-jail-officials-2020-Presidential-election-
review/6853176001/.
    \113\ Marley, ``Wisconsin Republicans Seek to Jail More 
Officials.''
    \114\ S.B. 1, 87th Leg., 1st Spec. Sess. (Tex. 2021); and H.B. 
2905, 55th Leg., Reg. Sess. (Ariz. 2021).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Like the upsurge in vigilante attacks, the wave of political 
attacks following the 2020 election finds its roots in the same 
election denial that drove the insurrection. Unfortunately, political 
attacks against election officials show no sign of abating.\115\ State 
legislators across the county continue to propose bills that allow for 
criminal penalties against, or the removal of, experienced election 
officials.\116\ In fact, when the Brennan Center asked local election 
officials to compare how worried they were about political interference 
in the 2020 election with how worried they are about political 
interference in future elections, nearly three times as many said they 
are very worried about the future.\117\ In other words, election 
officials themselves believe that the political attacks against them 
will get worse.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \115\ Grace Gordon, et al., The Dangers of Partisan Incentives for 
Election Officials, Bipartisan Policy Center and Election Reformers 
Network, 2022, https://bipartisanpolicy.org/report/the-dangers-of-
partisan-incentives-for-election-officials/.
    \116\ NH H.B. 1567, 2022 Leg., Reg. Sess. (N.H. 2022); and S.F. 
413, 89th Gen. Assemb., Reg. Sess. (Iowa 2021).
    \117\ Brennan Center, Local Election Officials Survey, 9.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
            iii. Growing Election Official Retention Crisis
    These disinformation-driven attacks threaten to create a retention 
crisis among election officials. According to the Brennan Center's 
survey, 3 in 5 local election officials are concerned that threats and 
harassment will make it more difficult to retain or recruit election 
workers going forward.\118\ Disinformation also exacerbates the 
already-heavy strain on election workers, who must spend significant 
time correcting misleading and false information.\119\ Due to these 
challenging circumstances, dozens of local election officials in 
Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin already have left their 
positions.\120\ In Nevada, by 2024 more than a third of the State's 17 
top county election officials will be new to the job.\121\ And Nation-
wide, 1 in 5 elected officials surveyed plan to leave their position 
before 2024.\122\ These officials overwhelmingly cited stress and the 
belief that politicians are attacking ``a system that they know is fair 
and honest'' as their top reasons for leaving.\123\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \118\ Brennan Center, Local Election Officials Survey, 19.
    \119\ Brennan Center and Bipartisan Policy Center, Election 
Officials Under Attack, 10.
    \120\ Sean Golonka, ``Election Official Departures Rising Amid 
Burnout, Angry Voters, New Requirements,'' Nevada Independent, January 
23, 2020, https://thenevadaindependent.com/article/election-official-
departures-rising-amid-burnout-angry-voters-new-requirements.
    \121\ Golonka, ``Election Official Departures.''
    \122\ Brennan Center, Local Election Officials Survey, 18.
    \123\ Brennan Center, Local Election Officials Survey, 18.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
B. Disinformation About the 2020 Election and Voter Fraud Is Distorting 
        State-wide Campaigns to Oversee Elections
    The vast majority of the thousands of State and local election 
officials in America are elected. This year, elections from town clerk 
and supervisor to State secretary of state and Governor will decide who 
will administer and certify the elections during the next Presidential 
cycle in 2024.\124\ Twenty-seven States will hold elections for 
secretary of state--the official who typically serves as a State's 
chief election officer.\125\ These races are being run in the context 
of a disinformation campaign intended to cast doubt on election 
results, and a significant number of election official candidates in 
these races are invoking claims that the 2020 election was 
invalid.\126\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \124\ Local officials, like county clerks, are typically 
responsible for designing ballots, running polling places, employing 
poll workers, and overseeing ballot counts. Secretaries of state are 
often a State's chief election official, overseeing procedures for 
voter registration and voting, as well as certifying results. Governors 
can also be involved in election administration through appointments, 
emergency declaration powers, and sometimes certification of results. 
Ian Vandewalker and Lawrence Norden, Financing of Races for Offices 
that Oversee Elections: January 2022, Brennan Center for Justice, 2022, 
https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/financing-
races-offices-oversee-elections-january-2022.
    \125\ Louis Jacobson, Secretary of State Races: More Important Than 
Ever in 2022, and More Complicated, Too, Sabato's Crystal Ball--UVA 
Center for Politics, December 1, 2021, https://centerforpolitics.org/
crystalball/articles/secretary-of-state-races-more-important-than-ever-
in-2022-and-more-complicated-too/.
    \126\ Lawrence Norden and Derek Tisler, ``Addressing Insider 
Threats in Elections,'' Brennan Center for Justice, December 8, 2021, 
https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/analysis-opinion/addressing-
insider-threats-elections.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    For example, many candidates embrace disinformation about the 2020 
election and voter fraud in their pitch to voters and donors, 
including--at the highest level--secretaries of state and gubernatorial 
candidates. The States United Democracy Center found that 21 secretary 
of state candidates disputed the results of the 2020 election, 
including at least 1 candidate in 18 of the 27 States holding secretary 
of state contests this year.\127\ Similarly, 24 of the 36 gubernatorial 
contests this year have seen campaigns take part in this 
disinformation.\128\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \127\ ``Secretary of State Races in 2022,'' States United Democracy 
Center, last modified January 27, 2022, accessed April 8, 2022, https:/
/statesuniteddemocracy.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/sosdeniers.html.
    \128\ ``Governor Races in 2022,'' States United Democracy Center, 
last modified January 27, 2022, accessed April 8, 2022, https://
statesuniteddemocracy.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/govdeniers.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    This disinformation has, in turn, increased the prominence of these 
races, illustrated by trends in the financing of contests for secretary 
of state in key battleground States. Compared to recent election 
cycles, campaigns are raising more money, from more donors, with 
greater reliance upon out-of-State donations.
    Across the States with the closest margins in the 2020 Presidential 
contest that are holding secretary of state elections this year 
(Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, and Wisconsin), the 
amount of campaign contributions has climbed more than 3 times higher 
than at this point in the 2018 cycle and 8 times higher than 2014, 
according to the Brennan Center's analysis.\129\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \129\ Ian Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices that Oversee 
Elections: February 2022, Brennan Center for Justice, 2022, https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/financing-races-
offices-oversee-elections-february-2022. We include the Wisconsin 
secretary of state race even though that office does not administer 
elections because election denial is an issue there. The Wisconsin 
Elections Commission, like elections administrators in many States, has 
been attacked over the 2020 elections. There has been a push, including 
by several declared candidates for secretary of state or Governor, to 
give the secretary of state greater power over elections. See Laurel 
White, ``GOP Lawmaker Amy Loudenbeck Launches Secretary of State 
Campaign, Calls for Office to Take Control of Elections,'' Wisconsin 
Public Radio, December 1, 2021, https://www.wpr.org/gop-lawmaker-amy-
loudenbeck-launches-secretary-state-campaign-calls-office-take-control-
elections.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Disinformation about the 2020 election and voter fraud is primarily 
responsible for this trend. Arizona, for example, has received National 
attention for claims about election irregularities, as is discussed 
above. One candidate, a leading fundraiser in the secretary of state 
race, has claimed that ``Trump won'' and called for ``decertifying'' 
the election.\130\ Amidst this disinformation-driven dialog, 
contributions to Arizona secretary of state candidates doubled since 
the last cycle and have reached levels more than 8 times higher than at 
this point in the 2014 cycle.\131\ Further, the number of donors giving 
in this year's secretary of state election, 11,566, is higher than that 
of recent cycles by a factor of 10.\132\ By comparison, only 1,235 
people gave to all the Arizona secretary of state candidates combined 
in 2018.\133\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \130\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
    \131\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
    \132\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
    \133\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In Michigan, one leading candidate has claimed that Dominion voting 
machines used by the State changed votes and said that ``Trump won 
Michigan.''\134\ Another has said the ``Big Lie'' is leading to ``an 
effort to try again in 2024 what those democracy deniers attempted to 
do in 2020 but failed.''\135\ Amid this rhetoric, contributions to 
Michigan secretary of state candidates are 3 times higher than at this 
point in the 2018 cycle.\136\ Incumbent Jocelyn Benson (D), who 
administered the 2020 election in Michigan and opposes claims that the 
2020 election was invalid, has raised $1.5 million, from 4,890 
donors.\137\ Educator Kristina Karamo, Benson's Republican opponent, 
has raised the second-largest amount: $233,494 from 2,206 donors.\138\ 
They each have more donors than those giving to all the secretary of 
state candidates combined in the last cycle, which was 1,478.\139\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \134\ Jeremy Herb and Sara Murray, ``Trump-Backed Michigan 
Secretary of State Candidate Spread False Election Claims and January 6 
Conspiracy Theories,'' CNN, November 16, 2021, https://www.cnn.com/
2021/11/16/politics/kristina-karamo-michigan-secretary-of-state-
candidate/index.html.
    \135\ Vandewalker and Norden, Financing of Races for Offices: 
January 2022.
    \136\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
    \137\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
    \138\ Beth LeBlanc, ``Benson Leads Karamo in Cash Haul for Michigan 
Secretary of State's Race,'' Detroit News, January 31, 2022, https://
www.detroitnews.com/story/news/politics/2022/01/31/jocelyn-benson-
leads-kristina-karamo-cash-haul-michigan-secretary-state-race/
9288506002/; and Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 
2022.
    \139\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Beyond the sheer amounts of money flowing into secretary of state 
races, these contests for bureaucratic State positions are taking on a 
more National profile as candidates attract unprecedented numbers of 
donors and funding from outside their own State.
    In Arizona, the amount that donors from other States have 
contributed has soared to almost 10 times more than in the 2018 cycle 
and over 30 times more than in either the 2014 or 2010 cycle.\140\ 
Republican State Representative Mark Finchem has received contributions 
from 4,983 people who live outside Arizona--two-thirds of his 
donors.\141\ Another secretary of state candidate, Democratic State 
Representative Reginald Bolding, also counts a majority of his donors--
54% of his 1,390 contributors--from other States.\142\ In the 2018 
cycle, by comparison, only 117 out-of-State donors made contributions 
throughout the entire secretary of state contest.\143\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \140\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
    \141\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
    \142\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
    \143\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Similarly, the Michigan secretary of state election also has seen a 
sudden increase in out-of-State funding. Donors living outside of 
Michigan have contributed $474,977--three-and-a-half times higher than 
the amount from the prior election, which also saw out-of-State funding 
levels higher than each of the two election cycles before.\144\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \144\ Vandewalker, Financing of Races for Offices: February 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In light of these numbers, it is important to recognize the 
dangerous interplay between election denial, threats against election 
officials, and the nationalization of races for election official 
positions. As detailed above, disinformation-driven attacks against 
election officials are pushing experienced officials from both parties 
out of their positions. At the same time, the individuals who may 
replace them will in many instances emerge from nationalized, 
politically-charged races that heavily feature disinformation about the 
2020 election and voter fraud. Our research shows that local election 
officials themselves are worried about this very problem and the impact 
on their profession: Over half of local election officials surveyed by 
the Brennan Center worry that their incoming colleagues might believe 
that ``wide-spread voter fraud'' contaminated the 2020 elections.\145\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \145\ Brennan Center, Local Election Officials Survey, 14.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Regardless of the outcome of these elections, relentless voter 
fraud lies and conspiracy theories have damaged voter confidence in 
election results, which is necessary for a functioning democracy. A 
majority of Americans believe U.S. democracy is ``in crisis and at risk 
of failing.''\146\ One candidate put it starkly: ``If American 
democracy is to survive, political figures of both parties need to 
abandon stolen-election claims.''\147\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \146\ Mallory Newall, Chris Jackson, and James Diamond, ``Seven in 
Ten Americans Say the Country Is in Crisis, at Risk of Failing,'' 
Ipsos, January 3, 2022, https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/seven-ten-
americans-say-country-crisis-risk-failing.
    \147\ Vandewalker and Norden, Financing of Races for Offices: 
January 2022.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 ______
                                 
    My testimony has shown that the same allegations that fueled the 
insurrection are continuing to wreak havoc on our democracy. The 
attacks on our democracy, in turn, expose the uncomfortable truth that 
our country does not have sufficient guardrails in place to protect our 
elections from efforts to restrict voting, sabotage our electoral 
processes, and undermine impartial election administration. To ensure 
free and fair elections, we must bolster and strengthen those 
guardrails. Most critically, we need baseline National standards for 
voting access and election administration, protections against voting 
discrimination, protections for impartial election administrators, and 
other defenses against election sabotage.
    Congress has broad authority under the Constitution to enact the 
necessary legislation, and it came close to doing so earlier this year. 
The Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis Act, which narrowly failed to 
overcome a filibuster in March, would address many of these problems. 
Most importantly, it would establish National standards for the casting 
and the counting of ballots in Federal elections and protect against 
harmful rollbacks of voting rights, partisan efforts to discard or 
otherwise manipulate election results, and attacks on election 
officials who are simply following well-recognized best practices. It 
also would directly insulate election officials from politicized 
efforts to remove them, increase safeguards against vigilante threats 
and harassment, curb the fraudulent ``audits'' that have been conducted 
in Arizona and elsewhere, and give voters a statutory right to sue if 
their voting rights are infringed, including by a failure to certify 
lawful election results. It contains direct curbs on disinformation--
including a clear prohibition on the dissemination of false information 
about elections designed to suppress the vote--as well as increased 
transparency for paid political communications over the internet. 
Finally, it would revitalize the landmark Voting Rights Act's 
protections against racial discrimination in voting that the Supreme 
Court has hobbled, among many other much-needed provisions.\148\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \148\ See Wilder, Tisler, and Weiser, The Election Sabotage Scheme; 
Brennan Center for Justice, The Freedom to Vote Act, 2022, https://
www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/freedom-vote-act; 
Hearing on Protecting a Precious, Almost Sacred Right: The John R. 
Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act, before the S. Comm. On Judiciary, 
117th Cong. (2021) (testimony of Wendy Weiser, vice president for 
democracy, Brennan Center for Justice), https://www.brennancenter.org/
our-work/research-reports/testimony-protecting-precious-almost-sacred-
right-john-r-lewis-voting; Hearing on Oversight of the Voting Rights 
Act: Potential Legislative Reforms, before the H. Comm. on Judiciary, 
Subcomm. on the Constitution, Civil Rights, & Civil Liberties, 117th 
Cong. (2021) (testimony of Wendy Weiser, vice president for democracy, 
Brennan Center for Justice), https://docshouse.gov/meetings/JU/JU10/
20210816/114010/HHRG-117-JU10-Wstate-WeiserW-20210816.pdf; Hearing on 
the Oversight of the Voting Rights Act: A Continuing Record of 
Discrimination, before the H. Comm. on Judiciary, Subcomm. on the 
Constitution, Civil Rights & Civil Liberties, 117th Cong. (2021) 
(testimony of Wendy Weiser, vice president for democracy, Brennan 
Center for Justice), https://docs.house.gov/meetings/JU/JU10/20210527/
112700/HMTG-117-JU10-Wstate-WeiserW-20210527.pdf; Hearing on Voting in 
America: The Potential for Polling Place Quality and Restrictions on 
Opportunities to Vote to Interfere with Free and Fair Access to the 
Ballot, 117th Cong. (2021) (testimony of Kevin Morris, Researcher, 
Brennan Center for Justice), https://www.brennancenter.org/sites/
default/files/2021-06/Morris%20%20Written%20Testimony.pdf; Hearing on 
Voting in America: A National Perspective on the Right to Vote, Methods 
of Election, Jurisdictional Boundaries, and Redistricting, before the 
H. Comm. on House Administration, Subcomm. on Elections, 117th Cong. 
(2021) (testimony of Michael Waldman, president, Brennan Center for 
Justice), https://www.brennancenter.org/sites/default/files/2021-06/
2021-06-22%20Waldman%20%20Testimony- .pdf; and Hearing on the 
Implication of Brnovich v. Democratic National Committee and Potential 
Legislative Responses, before the H. Comm. On Judiciary, Subcomm. on 
the Constitution, Civil Rights, & Civil Liberties, 117th Cong. (2021) 
(testimony of Sean Morales-Doyle, acting director, voting rights and 
elections program, Brennan Center for Justice), https://docshouse.gov/
meetings/JU/JU10/20210716/113905/HHRG-117-JU10-Wstate-Morales-DoyleS-
20210716.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The only way to neutralize the disinformation-driven threats to our 
democracy and to protect against potentially catastrophic results is 
through such Federal legislation. We strongly urge Congress to revisit 
this critical bill and pass it into law.
                                 ______
                                 
   Joint Statement of Christine Todd Whitman, former Governor of New 
  Jersey; Steve Bullock, former Governor of Montana; Jim Hood, former 
 Attorney General of Mississippi; Tom Rath, former Attorney General of 
New Hampshire; Trey Greyson, former Secretary of State of Kentucky; and 
  Frankie Sue Del Papa, former Secretary of State of Nevada, For the 
                     States United Democracy Center
                              May 27, 2022
    Chair Thompson, Vice Chair Cheney, and distinguished Members of the 
Select Committee, we are pleased to submit this statement in our 
capacity as members of the Bipartisan Advisory Board of the States 
United Democracy Center. States United is a nonpartisan organization 
advancing free, fair, and secure elections. We focus on connecting 
State officials, law enforcement leaders, and pro-democracy partners 
across America with the tools and expertise they need to safeguard our 
democracy. We are more than a think tank--we are an action tank. 
Together, we are committed to making sure every vote is counted, every 
voice is heard, and every election is safe. Our founders and Advisory 
Board are comprised of former administration officials, law enforcement 
leaders, and former State and local leaders from both the Republican 
and Democratic political parties who are committed to engaging and 
empowering pro-democracy leadership.
    Thank you for the opportunity to submit this statement to help the 
Select Committee in its on-going review of issues connected to the 
attack on the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021. As we will 
discuss, the attack that occurred on January 6, 2021, was not an 
isolated event involving random protestors. Rather, it was the logical 
next step in a continuing anti-democracy movement, instigated and 
fomented by various people, including former President Donald Trump, 
which was put into motion years earlier. But the movement does not 
begin or end solely with Trump; a host of diverse groups of people are 
involved, including lawyers such as Rudy Giuliani, Sidney Powell, and 
John Eastman; advisors to Trump, like Roger Stone, Steve Bannon, 
Michael Flynn, and Mike Lindell; and State and local officials from all 
over the country, including Pennsylvania State Senator and Republican 
nominee for the Governorship of Pennsylvania Doug Mastriano, Arizona 
Republican Party Chair Kelli Ward, and Texas Attorney General Ken 
Paxton.
    January 6 was also merely a next step, not a final one. Events 
leading up to and following that day reveal a sustained and coordinated 
effort by the former president and his anti-democracy allies to 
suppress voting rights, delegitimize free and fair elections, and 
subvert the will of the voters by overturning election results deemed 
undesirable to their movement. As we explain in our testimony, many of 
the tactics used to produce the January 6 attack and many of the people 
who affirmatively helped make it happen are still hard at work 
undermining our democracy today.
i. the january 6, 2021, attack on the capitol was not an isolated event
    The unprecedented and horrific attack on the United States Capitol 
on January 6, 2021, was not an isolated event. It was just one in a 
years-long series of coordinated efforts by former President Trump, his 
advisors, various lawyers, and like-minded State and local officials to 
delegitimize and attempt to overturn President Joseph Biden's victory 
in the November 2020 Presidential election.
a. The Precursors to the Current Anti-Democracy Movement
    The anti-democracy movement in America is not new, but Trump's 
leading role in it can be traced back to the 2012 Presidential 
election. As early as election night on November 6, 2012, when then-
President Obama was reelected after defeating now-Senator Mitt Romney, 
Trump tweeted that the election was a ``total sham'' and a 
``travesty,'' and claimed that the United States is not a democracy.\1\ 
Trump also asserted via Twitter that there were ``reports of voting 
machines switching Romney votes to Obama'' and warned voters to 
``[m]ake sure to verify the voting machine does not switch your 
vote.''\2\ After major news outlets called the race for then-President 
Obama around 11 p.m. on November 6, Trump tweeted, ``We can't let this 
happen . . . We should march on Washington and stop this travesty. Our 
nation is totally divided!''\3\ The next day, Trump foreshadowed his 
2016 election campaign slogan, tweeting: ``We have to make America 
great again!''\4\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\ Trump Twitter Archive, Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) (Nov. 
6, 2012, 11:33 PM EST), https://www.thetrumparchive.com.
    \2\ Trump Twitter Archive, Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) (Nov. 
6, 2012, 2:56-2:57 PM EST), https://www.thetrumparchive.com.
    \3\ Trump Twitter Archive, Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) (Nov. 
6, 2012, 11:29 PM EST), https://www.thetrumparchive.com.
    \4\ Trump Twitter Archive, Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) (Nov. 
7, 2012, 2:03 PM EST), https://www.thetrumparchive.com.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Two years later, during the midterm elections in November 2014, 
Trump furthered his conspiracy theory, baselessly alleging wide-spread 
election fraud, claiming that ``[e]lection officials [were] saying that 
there is nothing stopping illegal immigrants from voting. This is very 
bad (unfair) for Republicans!''\5\ Trump repeated the same baseless 
narrative leading up to the 2016 election when polls predicted that 
former Secretary Hillary Clinton would win the presidency. In October 
2016, Trump tweeted that the ``election is absolutely being rigged by 
the dishonest and distorted media pushing Crooked Hillary--but also at 
many polling places--SAD.''\6\ Even after he won the election, he 
continued to falsely declare that he had won the popular vote, even 
though Clinton won the popular vote by almost 3 million votes.\7\ While 
complaining about unfairness or mismanagement of elections may be valid 
where wrong-doing has actually occurred, Trump and his allies' 
complaints are striking because they have no factual basis, they are 
made preemptively (before the elections even take place), and they are 
baked into an ideological certainty that their side must win or else 
the elections are rigged. This view has served as a litmus test to 
determine whether one is a true ally of the anti-democracy movement.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \5\ Trump Twitter Archive, Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) (Oct. 
31, 2014, 4:43 PM EST), https://www.thetrumparchive.com.
    \6\ Trump Twitter Archive, Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) (Oct. 
16, 2016, 1:01 PM EST), https://www.thetrumparchive.com.
    \7\ 2016 Presidential Election Results, N.Y. Times (Aug. 9, 2017), 
https://www.nytimes.com/elections/2016/results/president; Trump has 
longstanding history of calling elections `rigged' if he doesn't like 
the results, ABC News (Nov. 11, 2020), https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/
trump-longstanding-history-calling-elections-rigged-doesnt-results/
story?id=74126926; Trump Twitter Archive, Donald J. Trump 
(@realDonaldTrump) (Nov. 27, 2016, 3:30 PM EST), https://
www.thetrumparchive.com (``In addition to winning the Electoral College 
in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of 
people who voted illegally.'').
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Trump was far from alone in touting these anti-democracy lies. For 
example, as Trump was ramping up for the 2016 election, his long-time 
confidante, Roger Stone, reportedly sent him a 13-page strategy 
memorandum, suggesting that the campaign should emphasize that the 
``system is rigged against the citizens.''\8\ Additionally, in an 
interview on a far-right radio show, Stone explained that he thought 
Trump's campaign should address ``wide-spread voter fraud'' and 
``talk[] about it constantly.''\9\ Likewise, Rudy Giuliani, former 
mayor of New York City who would later become Trump's lawyer, asserted 
on CNN that one would have been a ``moron'' to assume there would be no 
election fraud in cities like Philadelphia and Chicago.\10\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \8\ Trump and the Truth: The ``Rigged'' Election, The New Yorker 
(Oct. 8, 2016), https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/trump-and-the-
truth-the-rigged-election.
    \9\ Trump labels Clinton `the devil' and suggests election will be 
rigged, The Guardian (Aug. 2, 2016), https://www.theguardian.com/us-
news/2016/aug/02/donald-trump-calls-hillary-clinton-the-devil-and-
suggests-election-will-be-rigged?CMP=fb_gu.
    \10\ Why Trump's talk of a rigged vote is so dangerous, CNN (Oct. 
19, 2016), https://www.cnn.com/2016/10/18/politics/donald-trump-rigged-
election/index.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    While complaints about the results of an election routinely emanate 
from leaders on both sides of the aisle following a contest, former 
President Trump and his allies' behavior stands out because of its 
reliance on falsehoods, conspiracies, and blatant lies.\11\ In short, 
for the better part of the last decade, Trump and his allies 
intentionally planted seeds to cast doubt on legitimate election 
results and to foment suspicions among a substantial portion of the 
American public that voting is rigged, so much so that the number of 
votes cast for the other side cannot be trusted and the election 
results cannot be believed. This narrative feeds on baseless assertions 
that votes from undocumented immigrants, deceased individuals, or 
people who have moved are changing election outcomes \12\ and on 
general distrust in democratic institutions, including the Government 
itself, as well as the press, spurred by Trump's ``fake news'' 
campaign.\13\ Because these false election-related theories have now 
become so ubiquitous, anti-democracy activists can (and often do) claim 
that any electoral losses by their preferred candidates must be the 
result of wide-spread voter fraud--and for that reason must be 
overturned. The poisonous seeds planted in the past decade flourished 
during the 2020 election, leading up to the Capitol attack on January 
6, 2021, and have continued to grow in ways that severely threaten the 
life and health of our democracy.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \11\ Steven Levitsky & Daniel Ziblatt, The Crisis of American 
Democracy, American Educator (Fall 2020), https://files.eric.ed.gov/
fulltext/EJ1272137.pdf; Nicolas Berlinksi et al., The Effects of 
Unsubstantiated Claims on Confidence in Elections, https://cpb-us-
e1.wpmucdn.com/sites.dartmouth.edu/dist/5/2293/files/2021/03/voter-
fraud.pdf?_sm_au_=iHV4TH4F6TNDzFH7FcVTvKQkcK8MG.
    \12\ How a racist myth about immigrants voting continues to fuel 
unproven claims of voter fraud, Los Angeles Times (June 25, 2021), 
https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2021-06-25/racist-myth-of-
immigrants-voting-fuels-claims-of-voter-fraud.
    \13\ Donald Trump's ``Fake News'' Tactics, The New Yorker (Dec. 2, 
2017), https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2017/12/11/donald-trumps-
fake-news-tactics.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
b. The Anti-Democracy Movement in the Run-Up to the 2020 Election
    When former President Trump was up for reelection in 2020, he and 
his allies (new and old), including lawyers, advisors, and State and 
local officials, built upon his long-standing efforts to cast doubt on 
the legitimacy of the voting process. Ultimately, this metastasized 
into a full-throated attempt to overthrow the legitimate Presidential 
election of November 2020, commonly known as the ``Stop the Steal'' 
movement.
    This movement stemmed from the baseless theory that expanded mail-
in voting, which was being offered or expanded in many States because 
the COVID-19 pandemic made in-person voting difficult or dangerous, 
would cause rampant voter fraud. There is no truth to the assertion 
that wide-spread mail-in voting leads to wide-spread voter fraud,\14\ 
nor is there any support for Trump's assertions that undocumented 
immigrants cast significant numbers of mail-in ballots in our 
elections.\15\ Instead, former President Trump and his allies created 
this narrative leading up to the 2020 election because they believed 
that mail-in ballots could skew heavily toward then-candidate Biden--
especially during the pandemic when many of Trump's proponents eschewed 
social distancing and other safety precautions and called upon Trump's 
base to do the same.\16\ Because mail-in voting was expanded for the 
2020 election, it was well understood that days or weeks would likely 
be required to count all votes following Election Day.\17\ As a 
consequence, it was widely expected that votes counted on Election Day 
would skew toward former President Trump, but that as the mail-in 
ballots cast on or before Election Day were counted, the number of 
votes for Biden would increase.\18\ Thus, efforts by the former 
President and his allies to delay the mail, to discourage mail-in 
voting, and to stop counting ballots past November 3, 2020, were 
entirely self-serving.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \14\ Natalie Scala, et. al, Evaluating mail-based security for 
electoral processes using attack trees, Risk Analysis: An International 
Journal (Jan. 24, 2022), https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/
10.1111/risa.13876; Why a Vote-by-Mail Option is Necessary, Brennan 
Center for Justice (Apr. 7, 2020), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-
work/research-reports/why-vote-mail-option-necessary; How does vote-by-
mail work and does it increase election fraud?, Brookings (June 22, 
2020), https://www.brookings.edu/policy2020/votervital/how-does-vote-
by-mail-work-and-does-it-increase-election-fraud/.
    \15\ The Actually True and Provable Facts About Non-Citizen Voting 
TIME (Feb. 13, 2017), https://time.com/4669899/illegal-citizens-voting-
trump/; Yet again, Trump falsely blames illegal voting for getting 
walloped in California, Wash. Post (July 23, 2019), https://
www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2019/07/23/yet-again-trump-falsely-
blames-illegal-voting-getting-walloped-california/; Analysis: 
Noncitizen Voting is Vanishingly Rare, Brennan Center for Justice (Jan. 
25, 2017), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/
analysis-noncitizen-voting-vanishingly rare; Noncitizens Don't 
Illegally Vote in Detectable Numbers, Cato Institute (Nov. 25, 2020), 
https://www.cato.org/blog/noncitizens-dont-illegally-vote-detectable-
numbers.
    \16\ A step-by-step look at Trump's falsehoods on mail-in voting: 
Analysis, ABC News (Oct. 1, 2020), https://abcnews.go.com/politics/
step-step-trumps-falsehoods-mail-voting-analysis/story?id=73354979; 
Edward B. Foley, A Big Blue Shift: Measuring an Asymmetrically 
Increasing Margin of Litigation, 48 Journal of Law & Politics 501 
(2013), http://www.lawandpolitics.org/hifi/files/content/vol-xxvii-no-
4/Foley_Color_116.pdf; Richard L. Hasen, Beyond the Margin of 
Litigation: Reforming U.S. Election Administration to Avoid Electoral 
Meltdown, 62 Wash. & Lee L. Rev. 937 (2005), https://law2.wlu.edu/
deptimages/Law%20Review/62-3Hasen.pdf; see also The `Blue Shift' Will 
Decide the Election The Atlantic (Aug. 10, 2020), https://
www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/08/brace-blue-shift/615097/.
    \17\ How Long Will Vote Counting Take? Estimates and Deadlines in 
All 50 States, N.Y. Times (updated Nov. 7, 2020), https://
www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/upshot/vote-counting-today-polls-
election.html; How many votes will be counted after election night?, 
MIT News (Oct. 15, 2020), https://news.mit.edu/2020/votes-counted-
after-election-1015; How Trump's mail voting sabotage could result in 
an election night nightmare, Vox (Aug. 11, 2020), https://www.vox.com/
2020/8/11/21358960/trump-mail-voting-sabotage-explained.
    \18\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    An effort to impede the functioning of the United States Postal 
Service (USPS) gained steam in May 2020 when the USPS Board of 
Governors, all appointed by Trump, selected Trump campaign donor Louis 
DeJoy to be postmaster general.\19\ Shortly after DeJoy assumed office, 
the USPS adopted a number of operational changes that threatened to 
delay mail deliveries, including reductions in the availability of 
overtime, restrictions on extra trips to transport mail, and 
elimination of some mail processing equipment.\20\ Reporting complaints 
from constituents about a slowdown in service, Members of Congress from 
both parties, including anumber of ardent Trump supporters, pushed back 
against these changes. Republican U.S. Sen. Steve Daines and Republican 
U.S. Reps. Brian Fitzpatrick, Greg Gianforte, Peter King, David 
McKinley, and Daniel Webster sent or signed on to letters with 
Democratic Members of Congress to DeJoy pressing for reversal of the 
changes in mail handling.\21\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \19\ Board of Governors Announces Selection of Louis DeJoy to Serve 
as Nation's 75th Postmaster General, U.S. Postal Serv. (May 6, 2020), 
https://about.usps.com/newsroom/national-releases/2020/0506-bog-
announces-selection-of-louis-dejoy-to-serve-as-nations-75th-postmaster-
general.htm.
    \20\ Following Yesterday's Meeting, Leader Schumer and Speaker 
Pelosi Send New Letter to Postmaster DeJoy Calling for Immediate 
Reversal of Recent Postal Service Changes that Threaten Timely Mail 
Delivery for Millions, Senate Democrats (Aug. 6, 2020), https://
www.democrats.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/following-yesterdays-
meeting-leader-schumer-and-speaker-pelosi-send-new-letter-to-
postmaster-dejoy-calling-for-immediate-reversal-of-recent-postal-
service-changes-that-threaten-timely-mail-delivery-for-millions.
    \21\ Senator Steve Daines, Letter to Postmaster General Louis DeJoy 
(Aug. 8, 2020), https://www.daines.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/USPS%20-
%20Mail%20Delay.%202020.08.06.pdf; Carolyn B. Maloney et al., Letter to 
Postmaster General Louis DeJoy (Aug. 6, 2020), https://
oversight.house.gov/sites/democrats.oversight.house.gov/files/2020-08-
06.CBM%20et%20al.%20to%20DeJoy-
%20PMG%20re%20Postal%20Standards%20Changes.pdf; Congress urges Postal 
Service to undo changes slowing mail, AP (Aug. 6, 2020), https://
apnews.com/article/virus-outbreak-seniors-mt-state-wire-voting-steve-
daines-a291ebc31c5638aa5a9adafc2ff2b430.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    At the same time, Trump disseminated theory after theory about how 
mail-in voting would contaminate the 2020 election, further laying the 
foundation for claims of fraud to be made in the event of a Biden win 
in November. On May 21, 2020, at a press conference in Michigan, he 
said of mail-in ballots, ``who knows who's signing it? . . . [T]hey 
pirate these applications . . . You have all of the harvesting . . . 
They walk in at the end of a race . . . and then all of a sudden, out 
of the blue come thousands of votes at the very end.''\22\ Trump 
tweeted on May 24 that ``People grab [ballots] from mailboxes, print 
thousands of forgeries and `force' people to sign. Also, forge 
names.''\23\ On June 22, he tweeted, ``RIGGED 2020 ELECTION: MILLIONS 
OF MAIL-IN BALLOTS WILL BE PRINTED BY FOREIGN COUNTRIES, AND OTHERS. IT 
WILL BE THE SCANDAL OF OUR TIMES!''\24\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \22\ Remarks by President Trump in Listening Session with African 
American Leaders, The White House (May 21, 2020), https://
trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-
trump-listening-session-african-american-leaders-ypsilanti-mi/.
    \23\ Trump Twitter Archive, Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) (May 
24, 2020, 10:08 AM EST), https://www.thetrumparchive.com.
    \24\ Trump attacks mail-in voting with new series of false claims, 
The Guardian (June 22, 2020) https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/
jun/22/trump-mail-in-voting-fraud-claims.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Trump, who had already been opposing a $25 billion package of 
resources requested by the Postal Service, stated openly in August 2020 
that withholding the funds would prevent ``universal mail-in 
voting.''\25\ On the Fox Business Network, the former President told 
host Maria Bartiromo on August 13 that, ``[i]f we don't make a deal, 
that means they don't get the money, [which] means they can't have 
universal mail-in voting; they just can't have it.''\26\ Shortly after 
these comments, and after sustained bipartisan pressure, Postmaster 
General DeJoy announced suspension of some changes at the Postal 
Service and promised to ``deliver the nation's election mail on time 
and within our well-established service standards.''\27\ Ultimately, 
the inspector general for the Postal Service concluded that the Postal 
Service prioritized processing election mail during the 2020 election 
cycle and that, while timeliness fell slightly below target goals, it 
improved significantly over the delivery speed for election mail during 
the 2018 midterm election cycle.\28\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \25\ USPS Requests $75B in Emergency Funds to Keep Agency Alive, 
Gov. Exec. (Apr. 9, 2020), https://www.govexec.com/management/2020/04/
usps-requests-75b-emergency-funds-keep-agency-alive/164506/; see also 
President Trump with Coronavirus Task Force Briefing, C-SPAN at 36:44 
(Apr. 7, 2020), available at https://www.c-span.org/video/?471020-1/
president-trump-criticizes-who-comments-resignation-acting-navy-
secretary.
    \26\ Trump admits he's blocking postal cash to stop mail-in votes, 
AP (Aug. 13, 2020), https://apnews.com/article/virus-outbreak-election-
2020-ap-top-news-elections-politics-14a2ceda724623604cc8d8e5ab9890ed.
    \27\ Postmaster General Louis DeJoy Statement, U.S. Postal Serv. 
(Aug. 18, 2020), https://about.usps.com/newsroom/national-releases/
2020/0818-postmaster-general-louis-dejoy-statement.htm.
    \28\ Office of the Inspector General, United States Postal Service, 
Service Performance of Election and Political Mail During the November 
2020 General Election (Mar. 5, 2021), https://www.uspsoig.gov/document/
service-performance-election-and-political-mail-during-november-2020-
general-election.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Although Trump and his allies never pointed to any evidence of 
significant voter fraud, they continued to claim that mail-in voting 
could lead to such fraud. For instance, Doug Mastriano, a Pennsylvania 
State senator, originally voted to pass a law in 2019 called Act 77 
that expanded access to mail-in ballots to any voter who requested 
one.\29\ However, after an unprecedented number of Pennsylvanians 
applied for mail-in ballots by April 2020, Mastriano was quoted as 
saying, ``I feel a bit dubious about this,'' due to purportedly 
heightened risks of voter fraud.\30\ In Texas, Attorney General Ken 
Paxton praised the U.S. Supreme Court's rejection of a case seeking to 
extend access to mail-in ballots because he thought the rejection would 
help guard against ``wide-spread fraud.''\31\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \29\ Op-Ed: How Pennsylvania Democrats Hijacked Act 77, Senator 
Doug Mastriano (Jan. 26, 2022), https://senatormastriano.com/2022/01/
26/op-ed-how-pennsylvania-democrats-hijacked-act-77/ (noting ``[e]very 
single Republican Senator voted for [Act 77]'' in October 2019); With 
audit, Pa. Sen. Mastriano is obscuring his own role in fomenting 
election chaos, Pennsylvania Capital-Star (July 11, 2021), https://
www.penncapital-star.com/commentary/with-audit-pa-sen-mastriano-is-
obscuring-his-own-role-in-creating-act-77-fomenting-election-chaos-
opinion/;  Unprecedented volume of mail-in voting looming in primary, 
The Daily Item (Apr. 30, 2020) https://www.dailyitem.com/news/
local_news/unprecedented-volume-of-mail-in-voting-looming-in-primary/
article_e7710206-72c7-522f-ba8f-6bb6f5519d9a.html.
    \30\ Unprecedented volume of mail-in voting looming in primary, The 
Daily Item (Apr. 30, 2020) https://www.dailyitem.com/news/local_news/
unprecedented-volume-of-mail-in-voting-looming-in-primary/
article_e7710206-72c7-522f-ba8f-6bb6f5519d9a.html.
    \31\ Voting rules changed quickly for the primaries. But the battle 
over how Americans will cast ballots in the fall is just heating up., 
Wash. Post (July 3, 2020), https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/
voting-rules-changed-quickly-for-the-primaries-but-the-battle-over-how-
americans-will-cast-ballots-in-the-fall-is-just-heating-up/2020/07/03/
9b865dfa-ba43-11ea-80b9-40ece9a701dc_story.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
c. The Anti-Democracy Movement from November 3, 2020, to January 6, 
        2021
    Between the election on November 3, 2020, and the Electoral College 
vote count on January 6, 2021, the ``Stop the Steal'' movement employed 
a multifaceted approach to subvert the will of the American people. 
Their efforts were often chaotic, and when a given tactic failed, they 
shifted focus to another that might succeed in overturning the election 
result favoring Biden. During this period, their strategy encompassed 
five primary anti-democracy efforts: (1) Inspired by Trump and his 
allies' statements, aggressive and dangerous protests at central count 
facilities in States with narrow margins while ballots were still being 
counted; (2) a wave of baseless lawsuits alleging wide-spread election 
fraud; (3) a campaign to pressure Republican officials to overturn 
election results; (4) the creation of a group of sham electors from 
swing States to sign certificates falsely claiming that former 
President Trump had won the election in their States; and (5) a broader 
disinformation campaign intended to persuade portions of the American 
public that Trump was the rightful winner of the 2020 Presidential 
election.
    First, the Trump-inspired protests.--On election night, in the 
early morning hours of Wednesday, November 4, former President Trump 
appeared on television declaring that he had won the election. After 
listing several States where he claimed to be in the lead or nearly so, 
the former President declared, ``most importantly, we're winning 
Pennsylvania by a tremendous amount.''\32\ This announcement was met by 
a standing ovation from his audience of supporters. He continued, ``We 
want all voting to stop. We don't want them to find any ballots at 4 
o'clock in the morning and add them to the list.''\33\ At the time, 
vote counting was ongoing in Pennsylvania, because under State law 
absentee ballots could not be canvassed until Election Day. On Twitter 
at 3:04 a.m., Al Schmidt, a Republican commissioner on the Philadelphia 
County Board of Elections responded to the then-President of the United 
States: ``Philadelphia will NOT stop counting ALL legitimate votes cast 
by eligible voters. And we will report and report and report until the 
last vote is counted.''\34\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \32\ Trump declares victory prematurely, says will go to Supreme 
Court to dispute election count, YouTube (Nov. 4, 2020), https://
www.youtube.com/watch?v=NsI3jcgiIhA.
    \33\ Id.
    \34\ Al Schmidt (@commish--schmidt), Twitter (Nov. 4, 2020), 
https://twitter.com/commish_schmidt/status/1323898927666659328.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The following night, Kevin McCarthy, the Minority Lead of the U.S. 
House of Representatives, spoke on Fox News about fraud supposedly 
taking place in vote counting facilities around the country. He urged 
listeners to ``not be quiet, do not be silent about this. We cannot 
allow this to happen before our very eyes.''\35\ Hundreds of 
demonstrators then showed up outside central count facilities in 
numerous cities chanting, ``stop the steal'' and calling for police to 
``arrest the poll workers,'' and carrying signs that read ``Make 
Elections Fair Again'' and ``We Love Trump.''\36\ Many of these 
demonstrators were also carrying guns--some of them handguns, and 
others, military-style semiautomatic rifles.\37\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \35\ 77 Days: Trump's Campaign to Subvert the Election, N.Y. Times 
(Jan. 31, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/31/us/trump-election-
lie.html.
    \36\ Increasingly normal: Guns seen outside vote counting centers, 
AP (Nov. 7, 2020), https://apnews.com/article/protests-vote-count-
safety-concerns-653dc8f0787c9258524078548d518992.
    \37\ Id.; Two charged with carrying weapons near Philadelphia vote-
counting site, Wash. Post (Nov. 8, 2020); https://
www.newsnationnow.com/politics/2020-election/trump-supporters-protest-
outside-vote-centers-in-arizona-michigan/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In the days and weeks immediately following Election Day, central 
count facilities in large and traditionally Democratic-leaning cities 
such as Philadelphia, Detroit, Atlanta, Milwaukee, Phoenix, and Las 
Vegas were confronted by angry protesters demanding to oversee vote 
counting and questioning the legitimacy of the voting process. There 
was nothing suspicious about the count process taking longer than in 
past elections in these cities--they have much larger populations than 
their rural counterparts and thus had to process a larger number of 
mail-in ballots--but then-President Trump had expressed outrage that 
ballots were being counted past Election Day.
    Poll workers reported fearing for their safety as they worked to 
count the remaining votes.\38\ In Detroit, poll workers were harassed 
by unruly challengers yelling, taunting, jeering, and pounding their 
fists on windows while the counting went on.\39\ In Pennsylvania, 
Commissioner Schmidt later described his work as ``racing against a 
disinformation campaign that could potentially disenfranchise voters . 
. . It's not about the campaign or about who you want to win. This is 
never about who wins and who doesn't. But if a campaign is trying to 
disenfranchise the voters of Philadelphia, you can't not respond to 
it.''\40\ While votes were still being counted, Trump's supporters 
began attending ``Stop the Steal'' rallies in various cities as 
disparate as Boise, Idaho; Colorado Springs, Colorado; and Delray 
Beach, Florida to protest Biden's victory.\41\ Pro-Trump State 
lawmakers attended many of these rallies, which often involved 
altercations between Trump supporters and counter-protesters.\42\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \38\ Increasingly normal: Guns seen outside vote counting centers, 
AP (Nov. 7, 2020), https://apnews.com/article/protests-vote-count-
safety-concerns-653dc8f0787c9258524078548d518992.
    \39\ `Get to TCF': What really happened inside Detroit's ballot 
counting center, Detroit Free Press (Nov. 6, 2020), https://
www.freep.com/story/news/local/michigan/detroit/2020/11/06/tcf-center-
detroit-ballot-counting/6173577002/.
    \40\ He Wanted to Count Every Vote in Philadelphia, His Party Had 
Other Ideas., N.Y. Times, (Dec. 16, 2020), https://www.nytimes.com/
2020/12/16/magazine/trump-election-philadelphia-republican.html.
    \41\ Trump supporters gather for `Stop the Steal' rally in Boise, 
Idaho Press (Nov. 7, 2020), https://www.idahopress.com/news/local/
trump-supporters-gather-for-stop-the-steal-rally in-boise/
article_2110cb2a-35c6-52ba-a753-336ad7b8bef3.html; Trump supporters 
gather for `Stop the Steal' rally in Colorado Springs, Fox21News (Nov. 
7, 2020), https://www.fox21news.com/top-stories/trump-supporters-
gather-for-stop-the-steal-rally-in-colorado-springs/; `Stop the steal' 
protestors rally in Delray Beach to show support for Trump, CBS12 (Nov. 
7, 2020), https://cbs12.com/news/local/stop-the-steal-protestors-rally-
in-delray-beach-to-show-support-for-trump.
    \42\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Second, the lawsuits.--At the news conference at Four Seasons Total 
Landscaping in Philadelphia on November 7, 2020, Rudy Giuliani 
announced the Trump campaign's intention to begin litigation over 
allegations of voter fraud in Pennsylvania and other States.\43\ On 
November 13, Sidney Powell, a lawyer aligned with the Trump campaign, 
appeared on the Fox Business Network proclaiming to host Lou Dobbs that 
there had been massive voter fraud ``organized and conducted with the 
help of Silicon Valley people, the big tech companies, the social media 
companies and even the media companies.''\44\ Powell promised to combat 
the fraud with overwhelming evidence in blockbuster lawsuits, pledging 
that she would ``release the Kraken.''\45\ Powell proceeded to file 
lawsuits in Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, and Wisconsin, alleging that 
manipulated voting machines destroyed ballots and switched votes. Each 
of these lawsuits was dismissed as baseless by the courts.\46\ The 
district court in Michigan presciently observed that Powell's lawsuit 
there ``seems to be less about achieving the relief Plaintiffs seek--as 
much of that relief is beyond the power of this Court--and more about 
the impact of their allegations on People's faith in the democratic 
process and their trust in our government.''\47\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \43\ Rudy Giuliani Trump Campaign Philadelphia Press Conference at 
Four Seasons Total Landscaping, Rev Transcripts (Nov. 7, 2020), https:/
/www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-trump-campaign-
philadelphia-press-conference-november-7.
    \44\ `Release the Kraken,' a catchphrase for unfounded conspiracy 
theory, trends on Twitter, N.Y. Times (Nov. 17, 2020), https://
www.nytimes.com/2020/11/17/technology/release-the-kraken-a-catchphrase-
for-unfounded-conspiracy-theory-trends-on-twitter.html.
    \45\ ``Release the Kraken'' is a reference to a line from the 1981 
movie ``The Clash of the Titans,'' featuring the mythical sea monster. 
Id.
    \46\ Sidney Powell's `Kraken' lawsuits failed again, as judges in 
Michigan, Georgia, Arizona, and Wisconsin have now dismissed her cases, 
Business Insider (Dec. 10, 2020), https://www.businessinsider.com/
sidney-powell-lawsuits-dismissed-michigan-georgia-arizona-wisconsin-
2020-12; Federal judges reject GOP effort to overturn swing State 
election results, Politico (Dec. 7, 2020), https://www.politico.com/
news/2020/12/07/judge-rejects-overturn-michigan-election-results-
443411.
    \47\ King et al. v. Whitmer et al., Case No. 20-cv-13134-LVP-RSW 
(E.D. Mich.), ECF No. 62, 35-36.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In reality, the anti-democracy movement never had a legal strategy 
in pursing this long string of lawsuits. Instead, this was a public 
relations strategy from the start: Their only goal was to generate 
noise about election fraud, repeated in case after case and headline 
after headline, with the goal of creating the false public impression 
that the vote must have been affected by some level of corruption. In 
total, Trump and his allies filed more than 75 baseless lawsuits in 
State and Federal courts seeking to overturn election results in States 
where Trump lost.\48\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \48\ Post-Election Litigation Analysis and Summaries, Stanford-MIT 
Healthy Elections Project (Mar. 10, 2021), https://
healthyelections.org/sites/default/files/2021-06/Post-
Election_Litigation_Analysis.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    To be clear, we are not suggesting that post-election litigation is 
necessarily illegitimate--the ability to challenge election results in 
court is an important tool to ensure free and fair elections in our 
country. But these lawsuits were illegitimate because they were not 
based on any evidence or plausible allegations of any kind. Indeed, 
Trump's claims of election fraud were debunked by officials in his own 
administration. On November 23, 2020, then-Attorney General William 
Barr told Trump that, based on the Justice Department's investigation, 
the notion that voting machines were rigged in Biden's favor was 
``bullshit.''\49\ Additionally, on December 1, Attorney General Barr 
told Trump that the theory of voting machine fraud was ``demonstrably 
crazy.''\50\ The same day, the former Attorney General announced 
publicly that the Justice Department had not found any wide-spread 
election fraud.\51\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \49\ Bob Woodward & Robert Costa, Peril 166 (2021).
    \50\ Id. at 170.
    \51\ Disputing Trump, Barr says no wide-spread election fraud, AP 
(Dec. 1, 2020), https://apnews.com/article/barr-no-widespread-election-
fraud-b1f1488796c9a98c4b1a9061a6c7f49d.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Unsurprisingly, Trump's legal team lost all but one of their post-
election lawsuits (the one suit in which they prevailed had nothing to 
do with fraud, nor could it have changed the outcome of the 
election).\52\ Many of these cases failed for basic lack of standing. 
For example, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton filed a lawsuit (in 
which Trump sought to intervene) in the U.S. Supreme Court, seeking to 
invalidate millions of votes cast in Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania, 
and Wisconsin.\53\ The Supreme Court denied Paxton's request to 
initiate the case in a one-page order, holding that Texas had no 
standing to sue about ``the manner in which another State conducts its 
election.''\54\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \52\ Trump did not win two-thirds of election lawsuits `where 
merits considered', Politifact (Feb. 9, 2021), https://
www.politifact.com/factchecks/2021/feb/09/blog-posting/trump-did-not-
win-two-thirds-election-lawsuits-whe/.
    \53\ Texas v. Pennsylvania, et al., 141 S. Ct. 1230 (2020); Trump 
asks Supreme Court to invalidate millions of votes in battleground 
states, CNN (Dec. 10, 2020), https://www.cnn.com/2020/12/09/politics/
trump-supreme-court/index.html.
    \54\ Texas v. Pennsylvania, et al., 141 S. Ct. 1230 (2020).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Other courts dismissed similar lawsuits because there was no merit 
to the allegations of voter fraud.\55\ For instance, Kelli Ward, a 
former Arizona State senator and the chair of the Arizona Republican 
Party, filed a lawsuit seeking to overturn Biden's narrow victory in 
Arizona. After hearing 2 days of testimony and oral arguments, the 
trial court found ``no misconduct, no fraud and no effect on the 
outcome of the election.''\56\ The Arizona Supreme Court affirmed the 
decision, holding that Ward ``failed to present evidence of misconduct 
or illegal votes, `let alone establish any degree of fraud or a 
sufficient error rate that would undermine the certainty of the 
election results,' '' and the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear 
Ward's case.\57\ In another example, attorney Erick Kaardal filed suit 
on December 22, 2020, in Federal district court in Washington, DC on 
behalf of a group of voter alliances from several States seeking, among 
other things, to enjoin Vice President Mike Pence from counting the 
Electoral College votes for several States.\58\ This last-ditch effort 
failed, and the judge found the allegations so baseless that she 
referred Kaardal to a disciplinary committee.\59\ Another Federal 
district court judge in Michigan granted a motion for sanctions against 
Trump's lawyers who brought an election fraud lawsuit there, including 
Sidney Powell. The court's order, more than 100 pages in length, 
concluded that the ``lawsuit represent[ed] a historic and profound 
abuse of judicial process.''\60\ A Colorado State court judge--who also 
granted sanctions against the lawyers who brought a putative class 
action lawsuit alleging wide-spread voter fraud in the Presidential 
election--found the plaintiffs' complaint to be ``one enormous 
conspiracy theory.''\61\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \55\ By the numbers: President Donald Trump's failed efforts to 
overturn the election, USA Today (Jan. 6, 2021) www.usatoday.com/in-
depth/news/politics/elections/2021/01/06/trumps-failed-efforts-
overturn-election-numbers/4130307001/; Trump's judicial campaign to 
upend the 2020 election: A failure, but not a wipe-out, Brookings (Nov. 
30, 2021), https://www.brookings.edu/blog/fixgov/2021/11/30/trumps-
judicial-campaign-to-upend-the-2020-election-a-failure-but-not-a-wipe-
out/.
    \56\ Ward v. Jackson, Case No. CV2020-015285 (Ariz. Super. Ct. Dec. 
4, 2020); Judge rejects Arizona Republican Party's attempt to overturn 
election results; GOP vows appeal, AZCentral (Dec. 4, 2020), https://
www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/elections/2020/12/04/arizona-
judge-rejects-republican-effort-overturn-State-election-results/
3821578001/.
    \57\ Ward v. Jackson, Case No. CV-20-0343-AP/EL (Ariz. Sup. Ct. 
Dec. 8, 2020); Ward v. Jackson, et al., No. 20-809 (U.S. Feb. 22, 2021) 
(denying petition for review), https://www.supremecourt.gov/
search.aspx?filename=/docket/docketfiles/html/public/20-809.html; 
Election lawsuit from Arizona GOP chair Kelli Ward denied hearing by 
U.S. Supreme Court, AZCentral (Feb. 22, 2021), https://
www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/elections/2021/02/22/us-supreme-
court-wont-hear-kelli-wards-lawsuit-arizona-election/4544983001/.
    \58\ Wisc. Voters Alliance v. Pence, et al., Case No. 1:20-cv-
03791-JEB (D.D.C. Dec. 22, 2020), ECF No. 1.
    \59\ Id., ECF No. 23.
    \60\ King et al. v. Whitmer et al., Case No. 2:20-cv-1314-LVP-RSW 
(E.D. Mich. Aug. 25, 2021), ECF No. 172.
    \61\ O'Rourke et al. v. Dominion Voting Systems et al., Case No. 
1:20-cv-03747-NRN (D. Colo. Aug. 3, 2021), ECF No. 136.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Third, the pressure campaign aimed at State officials.--Trump and 
his allies also bombarded State officials in key swing States, 
pressuring them to alter election results in his favor. For example, in 
Arizona, in the weeks following the election, Republican chair of the 
Maricopa County Board of Supervisors, Clint Hickman, received calls 
from the White House, Rudy Giuliani, and Kelli Ward urging the Board to 
announce that it had discovered voting irregularities. Hickman refused 
these requests so that the Board's work and related litigation could 
follow their proper course. As Hickman stated, ``We were in litigation 
at all these points . . . Whatever needed to be said, needed to be said 
in a courtroom in front of a judge or a jury.''\62\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \62\ Maricopa County supervisor on rejecting calls from Trump 
allies: `Whatever needed to be said, needed to be said in a courtroom', 
CNN (July 5, 2021), https://www.cnn.com/2021/07/05/politics/clint-
hickman-trump-giuliani-election-calls-maricopa-county-cnntv/index.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Similarly, Aaron Van Langevelde, a Republican member of the 
Michigan State Board of Canvassers, recounted that ``some political 
leaders urged the Board to withhold certification [of electoral votes 
for Biden] based on unproven allegations of voter fraud, even though we 
had no legal authority to do so . . . We were asked to take power we 
didn't have. What would have been the cost if we had done so? 
Constitutional chaos and the loss of our integrity.''\63\ Van 
Langevelde refused, and Michigan certified its electoral votes for 
Biden.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \63\ Aaron Van Langevelde's speech about the 2020 election: `We 
were asked to take power we didn't have', Boston Globe (July 5, 2021), 
https://www.bostonglobe.com/2021/07/05/nation/aaron-van-langeveldes-
speech-about-2020-election-we-were-asked-take-power-we-didnt-have/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Trump and his closest advisors also directly pressured State 
legislators. In mid-November 2020, days before Michigan certified its 
election results, Trump invited members of the Michigan State 
legislature to come to the White House, including the House speaker and 
Senate majority leader.\64\ Around a week later, he invited several 
Pennsylvania lawmakers, including Doug Mastriano.\65\ Attorneys Rudy 
Giuliani and Jenna Ellis visited members of several State legislatures 
on Trump's behalf, including in Arizona,\66\ Pennsylvania, and Michigan 
to make allegations of voter fraud and to pressure the lawmakers to 
take legislative action to overturn the results.\67\ Giuliani told the 
Pennsylvania contingent: ``It's the State [l]egislature that controls 
this process. It's your power. It's your responsibility. And I think 
you know, and you have to convince the rest of your members, Republican 
and Democrat, [that] they owe that to the people of their State, and 
they owe that to the people of the United States.''\68\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \64\ Michigan lawmakers who met with Trump say they see nothing to 
change election outcome, CNN (Nov. 21, 2020), https://www.cnn.com/2020/
11/20/politics/michigan-house-speaker-will-meet-trump/index.html.
    \65\ President Trump invited Pa. lawmakers to the White House. Then 
everyone went silent., PennLive (Nov. 27, 2020), https://
www.pennlive.com/news/2020/11/president-trump-invited-pa-lawmakers-to-
the-white-house-then-everyone-went-silent.html.
    \66\ Arizona GOP lawmakers hold meeting on election outcome with 
Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani AZCentral (Nov. 30, 2020), https://
www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/elections/2020/11/30/republican-
lawmakers-arizona-hold-meeting-rudy-giuliani/6468171002/.
    \67\ Here's How The Trump Campaign Is Still Trying to Overturn 
Biden's Victory, Forbes (Dec. 1, 2020), https://www.forbes.com/sites/
alisondurkee/2020/12/01/heres-how-the-trump-campaign-is-still-trying-
to-overturn-bidens-victory/?sh=132938f13561.
    \68\ Giuliani tells Pennsylvania legislators they can override 
popular vote to appoint pro-Trump electors, Yahoo! News (Nov. 25, 
2020), https://news.yahoo.com/giuliani-tells-pennsylvania-legislators-
they-can-override-popular-vote-to-appoint-pro-trump-electors-
010121925.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    On January 2, 2021, Trump, joined by attorney Cleta Mitchell,\69\ 
called Brad Raffensperger, the Republican Secretary of State of 
Georgia, pressuring him to ``find'' enough votes for a Trump victory. 
Trump pressed Raffensperger, asserting that ``the ballots are corrupt. 
And you're going to find that they are--which is totally illegal, it is 
more illegal for you than it is for [those who corrupted them] because, 
you know what they did and you're not reporting it.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \69\ How a lawyer who aided Trump's 2020 subversion efforts was 
named to a Federal election advisory board, CNN (Nov. 18, 2021), 
https://www.cnn.com/2021/11/18/politics/cleta-mitchell-election-
assistance-commission-advisor/index.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    That's a criminal--that's a criminal offense.'' Raffensperger did 
not give in to this pressure, answering instead: ``Well, Mr. President, 
the challenge that you have is the data you have is wrong.''\70\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \70\ Transcript: President Trump's Phone Call With Georgia Election 
Officials, N.Y. Times (Jan. 3, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/
03/us/politics/trump-raffensperger-georgia-call-transcript.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    These instances are only a few examples. Trump and his team were 
contacting everyone they could in their attempt to overturn the 
election result. It is thanks to Hickman, Van Langevelde, 
Raffensperger, and other courageous local election officials around the 
country that this effort to not count eligible votes or to find 
additional votes for Trump that did not exist failed.
    Fourth, the fake electors.--In an effort reportedly overseen by 
Rudy Giuliani and Trump campaign officials,\71\ people who would have 
been electors from seven swing States had Trump won declared themselves 
the rightful electors on December 14, 2020. These sham electors 
``submitted false Electoral College certificates declaring Trump the 
winner of the Presidential election in Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, New 
Mexico, Nevada, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.''\72\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \71\ Trump campaign officials, led by Rudy Giuliani, oversaw fake 
electors plot in 7 States, CNN (Jan. 20, 2022), https://www.cnn.com/
2022/01/20/politics/trump-campaign-officials-rudy-giuliani-fake-
electors/index.html.
    \72\ EXPLAINER: How fake electors tried to throw result to Trump, 
AP (Feb. 21, 2022), https://apnews.com/article/capitol-siege-joe-biden-
presidential-elections-election-2020-electoral-college-
311f88768b65f7196f52a4757dc162e4.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Trump's allies then used these sham electors to try to overturn the 
election. In Arizona, 30 Republican lawmakers, including Arizona State 
Representative Mark Finchem,\73\ signed a joint resolution asking 
Congress to accept their State's ``alternate'' electoral votes cast for 
Trump.\74\ On January 6, several of Trump's allies in the House and 
Senate used these fake certificates to delay and attempt to block the 
certification of Biden's victory during Congress's joint session.\75\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \73\ Donald Trump is now backing a QAnon conspiracy theorist to run 
Arizona's elections, CNN (Sept. 14, 2021), https://www.cnn.com/2021/09/
14/politics/donald-trump-mark-finchem-arizona/index.html.
    \74\ `This should terrify the nation': the Trump ally seeking to 
run Arizona's elections, The Guardian (Feb. 21, 2022), https://
www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/feb/21/mark-finchem-trump-arizona-
elections-secretary-of-state.
    \75\ EXPLAINER: How fake electors tried to throw result to Trump, 
AP (Feb. 21, 2022), https://apnews.com/article/capitol-siege-joe-biden-
presidential-elections-election-2020-electoral-college-
311f88768b65f7196f52a4757dc162e4.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    These fake electors were a necessary component of a scheme that 
centered on then-Vice President Pence and that was set to culminate on 
January 6 when he would throw out the legitimate electoral votes from 
those States and substitute in the fake ones--if he could be persuaded 
to do so. By law and custom, the Vice President plays only a ceremonial 
role in the electoral process. Under Article II of the Constitution and 
the Electoral Count Act of 1887, the Vice President opens the 
certificates of votes sent by the States' Presidential electors and, 
after the votes have been counted, announces the outcome, officially 
certifying the result of the Presidential election.\76\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \76\ Trump Says Pence Can Overturn His Loss in Congress. That's Not 
How it Works, N.Y Times (Apr. 30, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/
01/05/us/politics/pence-trump-election.html. The limited role of the 
Vice President in the certification of the electoral results was even 
reflected in testimony from Mr. Eastman himself following the 2000 
Presidential election. He stated then that under the Electoral Count 
Act, Congress ``counts'' the votes and is ``the ultimate judge'' of 
disputes about the count and, in doing so, ``is answerable to no one, 
not the Supreme Court of the United States, not the Supreme Court of 
Florida, in that judging, because that power is delegated to it by the 
Constitution.'' 67 Florida Select Joint Committee on the Manner of 
Appointment of Presidential Electors, 2000, (Fl. 2000) (testimony of 
Professor John C. Eastman), https://www.c-span.org/video/?160847-1/
manner-appointment-presidential-electors.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    But Trump advisor and then-professor at Chapman University John 
Eastman concocted a plan spelled out in memoranda in late December 2020 
and early January 2021 in which Pence would ignore his legal 
obligations at the joint session of Congress on January 6 and would 
refuse to recognize electoral votes from several States based on a 
claim that there were ``multiple slates of electors'' in those States 
(i.e., the valid electors and sham electors discussed earlier). Pence 
was either to declare an outright victory for Trump or to pass the 
Presidential election to the House of Representatives. Since each State 
delegation in the House would have one vote, the Republicans' control 
of 26 State delegations was expected to ensure a majority for 
Trump.\77\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \77\ READ: Trump lawyer's memo on six-step plan for Pence to 
overturn the election, CNN (Sep. 21, 2021), https://www.cnn.com/2021/
09/21/politics/read-eastman-memo/index.html (two-page memo).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Eastman argued that these measures, though ``BOLD,'' were justified 
by the fact that ``this Election was Stolen by a strategic Democrat 
plan to systematically flout existing election laws for partisan 
advantage,'' and ``we're no longer playing by Queensbury Rules, 
therefore.''\78\ Trump demanded that Pence take part in this scheme, 
essentially presenting Pence with a choice between violating the 
Constitution and being denounced by Trump, likely dashing any chance 
Pence had of ever becoming President himself with support from Trump's 
base.\79\ As this Select Committee well knows, in March of this year, a 
Federal judge weighed in on Eastman's plot. In a civil case related to 
the Committee's pursuit of documents from Eastman, the court found that 
Eastman and Trump most likely had committed felonies, including by 
obstructing the work of Congress in counting electoral votes and 
conspiring to defraud the United States.\80\ The court called the 
scheme ``a coup in search of a legal theory.''\81\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \78\ Id. (six-page memo).
    \79\ Pence Reached His Limit With Trump. It Wasn't Pretty, N.Y. 
Times (Jan. 12, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/12/us/politics/
mike-pence-trump.html.
    \80\ Eastman v. Thompson et al., Case No. 8:22-cv-00099-DOC-DFM 
(C.D. Cal. Mar. 28, 2022), ECF. No. 260.
    \81\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Around the same time that John Eastman was working on his January 6 
legal strategy from outside the administration, Jeffrey Clark, the 
acting Assistant Attorney General for the Department of Justice's Civil 
Division, was working on a legal strategy from within the Government. 
By late December, Clark told colleagues that he was aware of 
information implicating Chinese intelligence in using thermometers to 
change the election results, despite there being no evidence of such 
foreign interference.\82\ On December 28, 2020, Clark emailed his 
superiors with a draft letter that urged Georgia officials to convene 
the State legislature in a special session to investigate 
``irregularities'' in the election.\83\ Fortunately, his superiors 
refused to send the letter.\84\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \82\ How a Trump Environmental Lawyer Tried To Weaponize the 
Justice Department To Help the President, CNN (Aug. 6, 2021), https://
www.cnn.com/2021/08/06/politics/doj-clark-trump-election/index.html.
    \83\ Trump Loyalist at DOJ Circulated Draft Georgia Letter with 
False Election Fraud Claims ABC News (Aug. 4, 2021), https://
www.cnn.com/2021/08/04/politics/draft-doj-georgia-letter-election-
reversal/index.html.
    \84\ How a Trump Environmental Lawyer Tried To Weaponize the 
Justice Department To Help the President, CNN (Aug. 6, 2021), https://
www.cnn.com/2021/08/06/politics/doj-clark-trump-election/index.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Fifth, the disinformation campaign.--The disinformation campaign 
related to the 2020 election started well before election day. The high 
volume of mail-in ballots was further exploited by anti-democracy 
forces, who fabricated stories suggesting the ballots were susceptible 
to fraud. For example, a single tweet in September contending that over 
1,000 mail-in ballots had been found in a dumpster was picked up by a 
far-right news website, which ran an ``exclusive'' story on a purported 
scheme by the county to dump uncounted ballots. In fact, the photo 
shared in the tweet showed old envelopes from the 2018 election that 
were being recycled--and ballots for the 2020 election cycle had not 
yet even been mailed. Within a day, the story had been shared by over 
25,000 Twitter users, including Donald Trump Jr.\85\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \85\ As U.S. election nears, researchers are following the trail of 
fake news, Science.org (Oct. 26, 2020), https://www.science.org/
content/article/us-election-nears-researchers-are-following-trail-fake-
news.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Disinformation came from the top, too. Harvard researchers found 
that tweets or briefings or Fox News appearances by Trump himself drove 
most spikes in media coverage, which allowed him to ``disseminate and 
reinforce his disinformation campaign'' regarding election fraud.\86\ 
This trend was exacerbated by the fact that different segments of the 
population held different beliefs about the election, driven in large 
part by the news outlets they tuned in to.\87\ Thus, for example, in 
September 2020, 61 percent of Republicans who primarily watched Fox 
News or listened to talk radio for their news said fraud had been a 
``major problem when mail-in ballots are used,'' whereas the percentage 
dropped to 44 percent for Republicans who also listened to other 
outlets, and to 23 percent for Republicans who did not rely on Fox News 
or talk radio.\88\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \86\ Id.
    \87\ How Americans Navigated the News in 2020: A Tumultuous Year in 
Review, Pew Research Center (Feb. 22, 2021), https://
www.pewresearch.org/journalism/2021/02/22/misinformation-and-competing-
views-of-reality-abounded-throughout-2020/.
    \88\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    After the election, lawsuits, recounts, audits, and other actions 
by Trump and his allies served as fodder for a broader anti-democracy 
disinformation campaign to convince segments of the American public 
that Biden stole the election. Indeed, a central goal of this anti-
democracy movement--since before 2016--has been to cast doubt on 
election results and give anti-democracy allies enough of an echo 
chamber so that if and when Trump lost the election, whether in 2016 or 
2020, a substantial number of people would believe it was because of 
fraud.
    This disinformation campaign has been supported by many of Trump's 
allies. For example, MyPillow CEO Mike Lindell said that he spent $25 
million pushing voter fraud claims and that he would ``spend everything 
[he has] and sell everything [he has] if that's what it takes'' to 
overturn Biden's victory.\89\ Steve Bannon, Trump's former chief 
strategist, promoted the theory that Biden stole the election from 
Trump on his popular podcast, War Room.\90\ Former Trump National 
Security Advisor and Retired Army General Michael Flynn went on a 
public speaking campaign to further sow doubts about the vote and urge 
States to conduct independent reviews of their election results.\91\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \89\ MyPillow CEO Mike Lindell told Insider he's already spent $25 
million pushing voter-fraud claims and will spend everything he has on 
the cause, Business Insider (Dec. 16, 2021), https://
www.businessinsider.com/mypillow-mike-lindell-25-million-pushing-
baseless-voter-fraud-claims-2021-12.
    \90\ Heeding Steve Bannon's Call, Election Deniers Organize to 
Seize Control of the GOP--and Reshape America's Elections, ProPublica 
(Sept. 2, 2021), https://www.propublica.org/article/heeding-steve-
bannons-call-election-deniers-organize-to-seize-control-of-the-gop-and-
reshape-americas-elections.
    \91\ The military-intelligence veterans who helped lead Trump's 
campaign of disinformation, Reuters (Dec. 15, 2021), https://
www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-military/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    NewsGuard, an independent service that evaluates the credibility of 
media sources, investigated and found 166 websites in the United States 
and Europe spreading misinformation about voting, the ballot-counting 
process, and the results of the 2020 U.S. election.\92\ The top myths 
spread included the theories that Democrats committed significant voter 
fraud using manipulated voting machines or mail-in ballots to change 
votes from Trump to Biden or to add extra votes for Biden; that 
undocumented immigrants unlawfully cast a significant number of 
absentee ballots (presumably heavily skewed toward Biden); and that 
poll workers manipulated ballots at counting centers when demonstrators 
were not allowed to oversee their counting process.\93\ Trump's 
supporters also took to social media to spread these lies, which 
Trump's team then attempted to use as evidence of wide-spread voter 
fraud in their ultimately unsuccessful lawsuits.\94\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \92\ 2020 Election Misinformation Tracking Center, The Top Election 
Myths Spreading Online and the Red-Rated Websites Promoting Them: 166 
and Counting, NewsGuard (Jan. 20, 2021), https://www.newsguardtech.com/
special-reports/election-misinformation-tracker/.
    \93\ Id.
    \94\ Trump's 5-year campaign of lies led to the Capitol attack. And 
we just let it happen.1 USA Today (Jan. 13, 2021), https://
www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2021/01/13/trump-disinformation-
campaign-led-to-capitol-coup-attempt-column/6639309002/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
d. Preparation for and Participation in January 6
    Leading up to the joint session of Congress on January 6, the 
effort to overturn Biden's victory included public rallies in 
Washington, DC in support of Trump's election fraud theories.
    In the early morning of December 12, 2020, ahead of the ``Million 
MAGA March'' planned for later that day, Roger Stone told a crowd of 
Trump supporters, ``We will fight to the bitter end for an honest count 
of the 2020 election. Never give up, never quit, never surrender, and 
fight for America. We have an obligation to see that the rightful 
winner of the election is seated, and that is the greatest president 
since Abraham Lincoln, Donald J. Trump.''\95\ Michael Flynn also spoke 
at the December 12 rally, promising that Trump would remain in 
office\96\ and likening the assembled protesters to the biblical 
figures who destroyed the walls of Jericho.\97\ Lesser-known figures 
spoke too: Amanda Chase, a State senator in Virginia who has been 
described as ``Trump in heels,'' echoed Trump's claim that Biden 
``cheated to win'' and that she and many other Americans would ``never 
accept these results.''\98\ She made drastic claims that Trump should 
declare martial law to conduct an audit of election results in her 
State.\99\ That same month, incidentally, Sidney Powell, working with 
Pennsylvania State Senator Doug Mastriano, began funding an audit of 
the voting machines in rural Fulton County, Pennsylvania, a community 
of fewer than 15,000 people that had voted overwhelmingly for Trump. 
This audit served as a test case of the audit trend that would persist 
well into 2022 throughout several States.\100\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \95\ `Nothing is Over': Roger Stone Addresses Trump Supporters at 
Protest in Washington, Yahoo! News (Dec. 12, 2020), https://
www.yahoo.com/now/nothing-over-roger-stone-addresses-142409365.html.
    \96\ Michael Flynn Says Trump Will Remain President in First Public 
Remarks Since Pardon, Newsweek (Dec. 12, 2020), https://
www.newsweek.com/michael-flynn-says-trump-will-remain-president-first-
public-remarks-since-pardon-1554374; see also Flynn delivers first 
public remarks since Trump pardon at DC rallies, The Hill (Dec. 12, 
2020), https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/529956-flynn-
delivers-first-public-remarks-since-trump-pardon-at-dc-rallies.
    \97\ US election: Pro-Trump rallies see scuffles in US cities, BBC 
News (Dec. 13, 2020), https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/election-us-2020-
55292610; Trump riots: 65 days that led to chaos at the Capitol, BBC 
News (Jan. 10, 2021), https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-
55592332.
    \98\ Pro-Trump Martial-Law-Pushing Amanda Chase `Getting Things in 
Order' to Run for Congress Newsweek (Nov. 8, 2021), https://
www.newsweek.com/pro-trump-martial-law-pushing-amanda-chase-getting-
things-order-run-congress-1647184.
    \99\ Virginia gubernatorial candidate says, `Trump should declare 
martial law', Fox News (Dec. 17, 2020), https://www.foxnews.com/
politics/virginia-amanda-chase-trump-martial-law.
    \100\ Group led by `Kraken' lawyer Sidney Powell hired the firm 
recounting AZ's election to probe election in Fulton Co., Pennsylvania 
Capital-Star (May 24, 2021), https://www.penncapital-star.com/
government-politics/group-led-by-kraken-lawyer-sidney-powell-hired-the-
firm-recounting-azs-election-to-probe-a-pa-election/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Members of the Proud Boys hate group were among the rally goers on 
December 12. After it ended, they prowled the streets of Washington, 
vandalizing a Black Lives Matter sign at a historic Black church, and 
confronting counter-protesters in altercations that left at least four 
people with stab wounds.\101\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \101\ Metro. African Methodist Episcopal Church v. Proud Boys 
Int'l, L.L.C. et al., Case No. 2021 CA 000004 B (D.C. Super. Ct.) 
(Complaint); Proud Boys leader arrested, accused of destroying D.C. 
Church's Black Lives Matter sign, NBC News (Jan. 4, 2021), https://
www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/proud-boys-leader-arrested-after-
allegedly-destroying-d-c-church-n1252789; How a D.C. Bar Became the 
`Haven' for the Proud Boys, Politico (Dec. 14, 2020), https://
www.politico.com/news/magazine/2020/12/14/harrys-bar-proud-boys-
washington-dc-445015.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Further rallies in D.C. on and immediately before January 6 were 
coordinated in part by Ali Alexander, who had created a limited 
liability company called Stop the Steal in 2020.\102\ Alexander Stated 
in internet broadcasts in December 2020 that he had organized his 
January 6 rally with U.S. Reps. Andy Biggs, Paul Gosar, and Mo 
Brooks,\103\ and on December 7, 2020, Alexander posted a tweet stating 
that he was ``willing to give [his] life for this fight,'' which the 
Arizona Republican Party (chaired by Kelli Ward) then retweeted with 
the addition, ``He is. Are you?''\104\ Trump tweeted from his own 
account on December 19, 2020: ``Big protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be 
there, will be wild!''\105\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \102\ Business Entity Records--Stop the Steal, LLC, Alabama 
Secretary of State, https://arc-sos.State.al.us/cgi/corpdetail.mbr/
detail?corp=821150; Trump allies helped plan, promote rally that led to 
Capitol attack, ABC News (Jan. 8, 2021), https://abcnews.go.com/US/
trump-allies-helped-plan-promote-rally led-capitol/story?id=75119209.
    \103\ `Stop the Steal' organizer, now banned by Twitter, said three 
GOP lawmakers helped plan his D.C. rally, Wash. Post (Jan. 13, 2021), 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2021/01/13/ali-alexander-capitol-
biggs-gosar/.
    \104\ `Stop the Steal' Organizer in Hiding After Denying Blame for 
Riot, The Daily Beast (Jan. 11, 2021); Arizona GOP asks if followers 
willing to give their lives to `stop the steal', The Hill (Dec. 8, 
2020), https://thehill.com/homenews/news/529195-arizona-gop-asks-if-
followers-willing-to-give-their-life-to-stop-the-steal.
    \105\ Trump Twitter Archive, Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
(Dec. 19, 2020, 1:42 AM EST), https://www.thetrumparchive.com.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Many others in Trump's orbit helped to organize and promote the 
anti-democracy events that led up to the Capitol attack on January 6--
some also spoke at the events. During the week before, Senator 
Mastriano helped arrange bus rides for Trump supporters from 
Pennsylvania to DC.\106\ Many of the key figures in the Stop the Steal 
movement spoke at a rally on January 5 at Freedom Plaza, emceed by 
Alexander. Flynn spoke at the event, declaring that ``the Members of 
Congress, the members of the House of Representatives, the members of 
the U.S. Senate, those of you who are feeling weak tonight, those of 
you that don't have the moral fiber in your body, get some tonight 
because tomorrow we the people are going to be here, and we want you to 
know we will not stand for a lie.''\107\ Mike Lindell urged the crowd: 
``Tomorrow, you need to pray for our Vice President to look up to God 
and say, `I need to make a decision, Lord, and to make the right 
decision for our country.' ''\108\ Other speakers included Roger Stone 
and Mark Finchem.\109\ Between speakers, Alexander led the crowd in 
chants of ``stop the steal'' and made declarations including, ``[t]he 
rebellion starts now''\110\ and ``[w]e ready for battle!''\111\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \106\ Mastriano campaign spent thousands on buses ahead of D.C. 
insurrection, WHYY (Jan. 12, 2021), https://whyy.org/articles/
mastriano-campaign-spent-thousands-on-buses-ahead-of-d-c-insurrection.
    \107\ Flynn, Papadopoulos address pro-Trump rally in DC, AP (Jan. 
10, 2021), https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lu5BJY-tG-c; Longtime Trump 
advisers connected to groups behind rally that led to Capitol attack, 
ABC News (Jan. 15, 2021), https://abcnews.go.com/US/longtime-trump-
advisers-connected-groups-rally led-capitol/story?id=75261028.
    \108\ #StopTheSteal Coalition Pre-Rally in DC at Freedom Plaza, 
RSBN TV, Periscope (Jan. 5, 2021), https://www.pscp.tv/w/1RDxlPOgyorxL.
    \109\ Id.
    \110\ Id. at 43:30.
    \111\ Id. at 1:06:47.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Also on January 5, a group of around 100 State legislators sent a 
letter to Pence regarding the purported ``illegalities present in the 
2020 election'' and asking him to ``afford [the] nation more time to 
properly review'' the election results by ``postponing the January 6th 
opening and counting of the electoral votes for at least 10 
days.''\112\ Doug Mastriano, Mark Finchem, and Wisconsin State 
Assemblyman Timothy Ramthun signed the letter.\113\ In an email to Vice 
President Pence's counsel on January 6, Eastman conceded that this 
proposed 10-day postponement would constitute a ``minor violation'' of 
the law.\114\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \112\ Letter to Vice President Michael R. Pence, Wisconsin Examiner 
(Jan. 5, 2021), https://wisconsinexaminer.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/
01/Letter-to-Pence-1.pdf; These 15 State legislators asked Pence not to 
certify election results, Wisconsin Examiner (Jan. 14, 2021), https://
wisconsinexaminer.com/2021/01/14/these-15-State-legislators-asked-
pence-not-to-certify-election-results/.
    \113\ Letter to Vice President Michael R. Pence, Wisconsin Examiner 
(Jan. 5, 2021), https://wisconsinexaminer.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/
01/Letter-to-Pence-1.pdf.
    \114\ Eastman v. Thompson et al., Case No. 8-22-cv-00099-DOC-DFM 
(C.D. Cal. Mar. 2, 2022), ECF No. 160-16.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Also on January 5, on his War Room podcast, Steve Bannon told his 
listeners, ``All hell is going to break loose tomorrow.'' He announced 
that, ``it's not going to happen like you think it's going to happen. 
Okay, it's going to be quite extraordinarily different. And all I can 
say is, strap in . . . You have made this happen and tomorrow it's game 
day. So, strap in. Let's get ready.''\115\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \115\ Ep. 631-Pandemic: One Day Away (W/ Maggie Vandenberghe, Jack 
Posobiec, Sean Parnell and Richard Baris) at 29:30, Steve Bannon's War 
Room (Jan. 5, 2021), https://listen.warroom.org/e/ep-631-pandemic-one-
day-away-w-maggie-vandenberghe-jack-posobiec-sean-parnell-and-richard-
baris/; How Trump allies stoked the flames ahead of Capitol riot, CNN 
(Jan. 18, 2021), https://www.cnn.com/2021/01/18/politics/trump-bannon-
stone-giuliani-capitol-riot-invs/index.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
e. The January 6 Assault on the Capitol and Democracy
    Then came January 6 itself, which began with Trump tweeting shortly 
after midnight echoing his and his supporters' long-standing efforts to 
delegitimize the election results and to pressure Pence to violate his 
Constitutional obligations. ``If Vice President @Mike--Pence comes 
through for us, we will win the Presidency. Many States want to 
decertify the mistake they made in certifying incorrect & even 
fraudulent numbers in a process NOT approved by their State 
Legislatures (which it must be). Mike can send it back!''\116\ Later in 
the morning, Trump tweeted: ``All Mike Pence has to do is send them 
back to the States, AND WE WIN. Do it Mike, this is a time for extreme 
courage!''\117\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \116\ Trump Twitter Archive, Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
(Jan. 6, 2021, 1 o'clock AM EST), https://www.thetrumparchive.com.
    \117\ Trump Twitter Archive, Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump) (Jan. 
6, 2021, 8:17 AM EST), https://www.thetrumparchive.com.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Next came speeches to a crowd assembled at the Ellipse next to the 
White House. This time, the speakers included Texas Attorney General 
Ken Paxton, who declared that ``[o]ne of the great things about the 
State of Texas is, we did not quit,'' referring to his failed lawsuit 
to force other States to cast their electoral votes for Trump. ``If you 
look at Georgia, they capitulated, they consented. We kept fighting in 
Texas.'' Paxton went on, ``What we have in President Trump is a 
fighter. And I think that's why we're all here.'' He pledged, ``We will 
not quit fighting. We're Texans, we're Americans, and the fight will go 
on.''\118\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \118\ Ken Paxton at Trump's D.C. Rally: `We will not quit 
fighting', Houston Chronicle (Jan. 6, 2021), https://
www.houstonchronicle.com/politics/texas/article/Paxton-Trump-DC-rally 
election-2020-georgia-15850073.php.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Giuliani told the crowd that ``[i]t is perfectly appropriate given 
the questionable constitutionality of the Election Counting Act [sic] 
of 1887 that the Vice President can cast it aside.'' He asserted that, 
in the previous day's U.S. Senate runoffs in Georgia and in the 
November Presidential election, voting machines had been programmed to 
fraudulently add votes, claiming that an ``expert'' had examined the 
machines and ``has absolutely what he believes is conclusive proof that 
in the last 10 percent, 15 percent of the vote counted, the votes were 
deliberately changed.'' Giuliani exhorted the crowd, ``Let's have trial 
by combat.''\119\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \119\ Rudy Giuliani Speech Transcript at Trump's Washington, DC. 
Rally: Wants `Trial by Combat', Rev Transcripts (Jan. 6, 2021), https:/
/www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/rudy-giuliani-speech-transcript-at-
trumps-washington-d-c-rally-wants-trial-by-combat.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Eastman spoke on the Ellipse as well, repeating that ``we know 
there was fraud, traditional fraud that occurred. We know that dead 
people voted.'' He went on to describe the supposed voting machine 
fraud, concluding that ``all we are demanding of Vice President Pence 
is this afternoon at 1 o'clock he let the legislators of the State look 
into this.''\120\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \120\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Trump then addressed the crowd, asserting that ``we won this 
election, and we won it by a landslide.'' He challenged the crowd, ``if 
you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country 
anymore.''\121\ And he addressed Pence, who was not present: ``Mike 
Pence, I hope you're going to stand up for the good of our Constitution 
and for the good of our country. And if you're not, I'm going to be 
very disappointed in you.''\122\ Pence issued a letter shortly before 
he was scheduled to preside over the joint session of Congress, stating 
that he lacked ``unilateral authority to determine which electoral 
votes should be counted and which should not,'' and indicating that he 
would abide by the Electoral Count Act.\123\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \121\ Read Trump's Jan. 6 Speech, A Key Part Of Impeachment Trial, 
NPR (Feb. 10, 2021), https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-
trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment-trial.
    \122\ Id.
    \123\ Read Pence's Full Letter Saying he Can't Claim `Unilateral 
Authority' to Reject Electoral Votes, AP (Jan. 6, 2021), https://
www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/read-pences-full-letter-saying-he-cant-
claim-unilateral-authority-to-reject-electoral-votes.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    A large portion of the crowd at the Ellipse moved from there to 
Capitol Hill. Among them was Ron Hanks, who had recently been elected 
to the Colorado legislature. He said that he had come to DC ``to get a 
read of the Nation's Trump supporters . . . to get a sense of what may 
happen next to combat this stolen election.''\124\ Altercations with 
the Capitol Police soon followed--and many of the ringleaders of the 
anti-democracy movement were there to fan the flames. Finchem tweeted 
photographs of protestors gathered on the steps of the Capitol 
building.\125\ Alexander led chants outside the Capitol of ``victory or 
death.''\126\ Mastriano claimed that he did not go beyond police lines 
and left the area ``when it was apparent that this was no longer a 
peaceful protest,'' but video footage shows him and his wife passing 
through a breached police barricade.\127\ At 2:11 p.m., rioters 
breached a window at the Capitol building.\128\ As you know all too 
well, the mob entered the Capitol, and Members of Congress and the Vice 
President were forced to evacuate. Ward tweeted, ``Congress is 
adjourned. Send the elector choice back to the legislatures.''\129\ 
Trump tweeted that Pence lacked ``the courage to do what should have 
been done to protect our Country and our Constitution,''\130\ but 
eventually, through heroic efforts, the Capitol Police and the National 
Guard restored order at the Capitol, and the vote count resumed.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \124\ The Trump Rally (Jan. 7, 2021), https://drive.google.com/
file/d/1jyoRaj7kI0V4X-0jAB3Z0xaJjOc2uk8e/view (copy on file with States 
United); see also Colorado House Democrat calls for removal of GOP 
colleague who was at Jan. 6 rally, Denver Post (Feb. 16, 2021), https:/
/www.denverpost.com/2021/02/16/ron-hanks-colorado-house-removal-
capitol-riot/.
    \125\ Seven Arizonan Republican legislators face calls to ban them 
from the House and Senate, KNXV (Jan. 8, 2021), https://www.abc15.com/
news/state/seven-arizonan-republican-legislators-face-calls-to-ban-
them-from-the-house-and-senate.
    \126\ Baked Alaska, the QAnon Shaman . . . who led the storming of 
the Capitol?, The Guardian (Jan. 7, 2021), https://www.theguardian.com/
us-news/2021/jan/07/baked-alaska-the-qanon-shaman-who-led-the-storming-
of-the-capitol.
    \127\ Pa. GOP lawmaker Doug Mastriano says he left the Capitol area 
before the riot. New videos say otherwise, The Philadelphia Inquirer 
(May 25, 2021), https://www.inquirer.com/news/doug-mastriano-capitol-
riot-pennslyvania-video-20210525.html; Videos Contradict State 
Lawmaker's Claim He Left Capitol While It Was `Still Peaceful', 
HuffPost (May 25, 2021), https://www.huffpost.com/entry/doug-mastriano-
capitol-riot_n_60ac5e99e4b019ef10de09c7.
    \128\ How the rioters who stormed the Capitol came dangerously 
close to Pence, Wash. Post (Jan. 15, 2021), https://
www.washingtonpost.com/politics/pence-rioters-capitol-attack/2021/01/
15/ab62e434-567c-11eb-a08b-f1381ef3d207_story.html; Inside the Capitol 
Riot: An Exclusive Video Investigation, N.Y. Times (Sept. 23, 2021), 
https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/30/us/jan-6-capitol-attack-
takeaways.html.
    \129\ Kelli Ward (@kelliwardaz), Twitter (Jan. 6, 2021), https://
twitter.com/kelliwardaz/status/1346916956801179649.
    \130\ Trump Twitter Archive, Donald Trump (@realDonaldTrump) (Jan. 
6, 2021, 2:24 PM EST), https://www.thetrumparchive.com.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Soon after, a new disinformation campaign was launched to cast the 
riot as either a protest that got out of hand or a false-flag operation 
by leftists to embarrass Trump. Hanks wrote that the crowd at the 
Capitol was not the same as at Trump's rally: ``[v]ery few people at 
the Ellipse were wearing masks. Those at the Capitol were wearing 
bandanas, like the Antifa bandits of the summertime riots.''\131\ 
Congressmembers Matt Gaetz, Paul Gosar, and Mo Brooks all spouted the 
conspiracy theory that Antifa had attacked the Capitol.\132\ Giuliani 
appeared on Bannon's podcast on January 9, asserting that Democrats had 
stormed the building.\133\ The same claims were echoed by Finchem,\134\ 
Ward,\135\ Paxton,\136\ and Lindell.\137\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \131\ The Trump Rally (Jan. 7, 2021), https://drive.google.com/
file/d/1jyoRaj7kI0V4X-0jAB3Z0xaJjOc2uk8e/view (copy on file with States 
United).
    \132\ Antifa Didn't Storm The Capitol. Just Ask The Rioters., NPR 
(Mar. 2, 2021), https://www.npr.org/2021/03/02/972564176/antifa-didnt-
storm-the-capitol-just-ask-the-rioters.
    \133\ YouTube bans Steve Bannon's podcast channel hours after Rudy 
Giuliani appeared on an episode and blamed the Capitol siege on 
Democrats Business Insider (Jan. 9, 2021), https://
www.businessinsider.com/youtube-bans-steve-bannon-war-room-podcast-
rudy-giuliani-comments-2021-1; Google bans two Steve Bannon YouTube 
channels after Trump lawyer Giuliani claims stolen election, The 
Mercury News (Jan. 8, 2021), https://www.mercurynews.com/2021/01/08/
googles-youtube-hosts-video-of-trump-lawyer-giuliani-claiming-stolen-
election-two-days-after-deadly-capitol-insurrection/.
    \134\ Among some in Arizona GOP, siege of the US Capitol was 
everyone's fault except Trump, AZCentral (Jan. 7, 2021), https://
www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/arizona/2021/01/07/these-arizona-
republicans-say-trump-isnt-to-blame-for-capitol-riot/6580354002/.
    \135\ As Nation's Capitol swirled into chaos, Arizona played a 
central role, AZCentral (Jan 6, 2021), https://www.azcentral.com/story/
news/politics/arizona/2021/01/06/arizonas-role-us-capitol-riot-paul-
gosar-election-certification/6571625002/.
    \136\ Ken Paxton told Trump supporters to `keep fighting.' When 
they breached the Capitol, he falsely claimed it wasn't them., The 
Texas Tribune (Jan. 7, 2021), https://www.texastribune.org/2021/01/07/
texas-ken-paxton-trump-supporters/.
    \137\ How Trump's pied pipers rallied a faithful mob to the 
Capitol, Reuters (Jan. 11, 2021), https://www.reuters.com/article/us-
usa-trump-protest-organizers-insight/how-trumps-pied-pipers-rallied-a-
faithful-mob-to-the-capitol-idUSKBN29G2UP.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    For those who were involved in the attempted coup on January 6, the 
fight did not end on that day. Soon after, Amanda Chase gave a floor 
speech in Virginia defending those who stormed the Capitol, calling 
them ``patriots who love their country and do not want to see our great 
republic turned into a socialist country.''\138\ On January 10, 
Alexander appeared in an internet video, promising: ``We are going to 
punish the traitors,'' referring to Republican politicians who endorsed 
Biden's electoral victory. ``The Lord says vengeance is his, and I pray 
I am the tool to stab these motherf--ers.''\139\ This continuing 
rhetoric was a cause for concern for House Minority Leader Kevin 
McCarthy. In newly released audio from a private call from January 10, 
2021, McCarthy urged Republican leaders to monitor lawmakers' public 
statements and alert him to potentially dangerous messages: ``I do not 
want to look back and think we caused something, or we missed 
something, and someone got hurt. I don't want to play politics with any 
of that.''\140\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \138\ Virginia Senator Who Defended Capitol Rioters Faces Censure 
Effort NBC4 Washington (Jan. 23, 2021), https://www.nbcwashington.com/
news/local/virginia-senator-who-defended-capitol-rioters-faces-censure-
effort/2549545/.
    \139\ Id.
    \140\ McCarthy Feared G.O.P. Lawmakers Put `People in Jeopardy' 
After Jan. 6 New York Times (April 26, 2022), https://www.nytimes.com/
2022/04/26/us/politics/mccarthy-republican-
lawmakers.html?partner=slack&smid=sl-share.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
               ii. the anti-democracy movement continues
    As we explained, the terrible events of January 6 were not the 
start of this anti-democracy movement, nor were they the end. The 
central tenet of the ``Stop the Steal'' movement--the ``Big Lie'' that 
the 2020 Presidential election was stolen from Trump--has only spread 
further. Today, it is a tool for certain anti-democracy activists, whom 
we at States United call ``election deniers,'' to take steps to ensure 
that former President Trump and his advisors, lawyers, and like-minded 
State and local officials will be able to control the outcomes of 
future elections across the country regardless of whether they or their 
preferred candidates actually win those elections.\141\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \141\ The clear and present danger of Trump's enduring `Big Lie', 
NPR (Dec. 23, 2021), https://www.npr.org/2021/12/23/1065277246/trump-
big-lie-jan-6-election.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    That's where we now find ourselves. Many of the same people who 
preemptively cast doubt on the 2016 and 2020 elections, and who were 
involved in efforts to take over the Government by force to change the 
result of the 2020 Presidential election, have now developed a playbook 
for future elections: First, they change the rules of elections; then, 
they change the referees--the people who will enforce those rules. This 
process is accompanied by many of the same anti-democracy tactics that 
were employed prior to January 6, such as pressure aimed at State 
officials--including challenging them in primary elections--and 
sustained disinformation campaigns. The objective is to change the 
results in the future--and some even bizarrely believe that the results 
of 2020 can still be changed. The purported justification for all of 
that is the ``Big Lie,'' that the 2020 election was stolen from Trump 
through voter fraud.
a. Changing the Rules
    We first turn to the efforts to change the rules of elections. In 
the aftermath of the 2020 Presidential election, a wave of legislative 
proposals to revise election laws swept across the country State by 
State.\142\ The Voting Rights Lab identified more than 2,000 bills that 
seek to alter in one way or another the way elections are 
administered.\143\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \142\ A Democracy Crisis in the Making, States United Democracy 
Center (Apr. 22, 2021), https://statesuniteddemocracy.org/wp-content/
uploads/2021/04/FINAL-Democracy-Crisis-Report-April-21.pdf.
    \143\ Legislative Tracker, Voting Rights Lab (last checked Apr. 12, 
2022), https://tracker.votingrightslab.org/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Of course, as we said earlier with respect to litigation, nothing 
is inherently problematic about introducing bills relating to election 
laws. But many of these bills involve efforts to alter basic principles 
about how elections are administered and aspire to put highly partisan 
State legislators in charge of basic decisions about our elections--
with the ostensible goal being to rig election outcomes and give a 
political party the ability to nullify the votes of the people.
    Traditionally, the executive branch and local election officials 
have run our voting systems, but these recent efforts would give State 
legislators the power to disrupt election administration and the 
reporting of results--powers beyond those they had in 2020 or indeed 
throughout much of the last century. Had such bills been law in 2020, 
they would have significantly added to the turmoil that surrounded the 
election, and they would have raised the alarming prospect that the 
outcome of the Presidential election could be decided contrary to the 
people's votes. When the losing party overrides the will of the voters, 
our system of Government collapses.
    Our organization, States United, published a report, Democracy 
Crisis in the Making, on precisely this issue. In April 2021,\144\ we 
identified 148 bills threatening to interfere with election 
administration across 36 States. In May 2022, States United published 
an updated report that found the trend of introducing election 
subversion bills has accelerated. As of April 8, 2022, legislatures in 
33 States have introduced 229 bills--175 introduced in this calendar 
year alone and 54 rolled over from the last calendar year. In total, 50 
election subversion bills have been enacted or adopted (32 last year 
and 18 thus far this year).\145\ A few are worth highlighting.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \144\ Democracy Crisis in the Making: How State Legislatures are 
Politicizing, Criminalizing, and Interfering with Elections, States 
United Democracy Center, https://statesuniteddemocracy.org/resources/
democracy-crisis-in-the-making-how-state-legislatures-are-politicizing-
criminalizing-and-interfering-with-elections/.
    \145\ Democracy Crisis in the Making: How State Legislatures are 
Politicizing, Criminalizing, and Interfering with Elections, States 
United Democracy Center, https://statesuniteddemocracy.org/wp-content/
uploads/2022/05/DCITM_2022.pdf.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Buried among the more publicized provisions of Georgia's S.B. 
202,\146\ enacted in March 2021, are changes to Georgia's election laws 
that fundamentally alter the balance of power between the executive and 
legislative branches. For example, the law changes the appointments 
power and restricts the State Election Board's ability to respond to 
emergencies. In particular, the law replaces the directly-elected 
secretary of state as chair of the State Election Board with a 
``chairperson elected by the General Assembly''\147\ and it empowers 
the State Election Board--now chaired by a legislative appointee--to 
investigate and replace local election officials whose competence has 
been, as the law puts it, ``call[ed] into question.''\148\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \146\ S.B. 202, Georgia 2021-2022 Regular Session, https://
www.legis.ga.gov/api/legislation/document/20212022/201498; A Democracy 
Crisis in the Making, States United Democracy Center (Apr. 22, 2021), 
https://statesuniteddemocracy.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/FINAL-
Democracy-Crisis-Report-April-21.pdf.
    \147\ S.B. 202, Georgia 2021-2022 Regular Session, https://
www.legis.ga.gov/api/legislation/document/20212022/201498.
    \148\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Context is important here. In light of the Secretary of State Brad 
Raffensperger's resisting calls from State legislators and others 
(including Trump) to overturn the election results, this is a clear 
effort by partisan legislators to wrest control of the State's 
elections into their own hands.
    Before this year, the State Election Board was chaired by the 
secretary of state and, in addition, was comprised of two legislative 
appointees and one representative of each political party. Under the 
new law, the chair is selected by a simple majority vote of the Georgia 
Senate and House. While the chair must be ``nonpartisan,'' this merely 
means that they must not have engaged in partisan politics--for 
example, by participating in a partisan campaign--for the previous 2 
years. Additionally, the chair can be removed and replaced by the 
legislature at any time by a majority vote, giving the legislature 
effective control of the board.
    Further, those legislative appointees now have the power to replace 
local election officials with their own hand-picked substitutes. In 
Georgia, elections are administered by ``superintendents''--usually 
bipartisan or nonpartisan county election boards. Under the new law, 
the State Election Board can replace superintendents if it finds that 
there has been ``demonstrated nonfeasance, malfeasance, or gross 
negligence in the administration of . . . elections'' over a 2-year 
period. This vague standard raises the specter of election manipulation 
by partisan actors.
    Indeed, in an extreme case, the legislature--acting through the 
Board--might be able to abuse this power to overturn the results of an 
election--for example, by replacing a superintendent to prevent the 
certification of election results.
    Kansas's H.B. 2332,\149\ which was passed by overriding the 
Governor's veto in May 2021,\150\ charts a different path for inserting 
the legislature into crucial election functions and depriving the 
Governor or secretary of state of vital powers. This law strips the 
Governor of any authority to modify election laws or procedures. The 
secretary of state is now barred from settling any litigation regarding 
elections without the consent of the legislative coordinating council. 
And Kansas State courts now lack the authority to modify State election 
laws except under powers that may be granted to them by the State's 
constitution. As a result, in the event of an emergency, such as a 
flood that renders polling places inaccessible, the Governor will be 
unable to act quickly to modify election procedures. Likewise, the 
secretary of state will have their hands tied in court, and effectively 
every lawsuit regarding voting in Kansas--potentially everything from 
the certification of election results to how voter registration is 
conducted--will be overseen by a group of partisan political actors.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \149\ Democracy Crisis Report Update: New Data and Trends Show the 
Warning Signs Have Intensified in the Last Two Months, States United 
Democracy Center, Project Democracy, and Law Forward (June 10, 2021), 
https://statesuniteddemocracy.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Democracy-
Crisis-Part-II_June-10_Final_v7.pdf.
    \150\ HB 2332, Kansas 2021-2022 Legislative Sessions (Apr. 12, 
2022), http://www.kslegislature.org/li/b2021--22/measures/hb2332/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Last, in Arkansas, the State legislature enacted a new measure in 
2021, H.B. 1803,\151\ which expands the power and investigative scope 
of the State's partisan State Board of Election Commissioners to 
oversee or even undo election results. The seven-member board is 
chaired by the secretary of state, and the remaining six members of the 
board are appointed by the State's Governor, legislative leaders, and 
the heads of its Republican and Democratic parties. Under previous law, 
the board was empowered to hear and resolve complaints about violations 
of voter registration laws as well as general election complaints, but 
it was considered to be ``toothless.'' Now, the board may hear a 
broader range of complaints including about how county boards tabulated 
ballots or certified results, as well as their ``election processes'' 
or the conduct of elections in general. If the board finds a complaint 
valid, it is entitled to impose fines and ``institute corrective 
actions.''\152\ Since the remedy is not further specified in the law, 
critics have worried that the broad language could enable the board to 
overturn elections.\153\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \151\ Id.
    \152\ Are State legislators really seeking power to overrule the 
voters?, Politifact (July 14, 2021), https://www.politifact.com/
article/2021/jul/14/are-state-legislators-really-seeking-power-
overrul/.
    \153\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Since Georgia is a State that has been characterized by some 
extremely close elections, we know that laws restricting voting rights 
there can directly affect the outcomes of critical State-wide elections 
that have an impact on the whole Nation. Although the latter two laws 
we discussed were not enacted in States with as narrow election 
margins, they illustrate a disturbing trend of anti-democracy forces 
developing and workshopping laws to change the election system to suit 
their ends, which they can then import into other States with more 
closely contested elections. In this way, certain solidly Republican 
States have acted as, as The New York Times called them, ``laboratories 
for legislation.''\154\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \154\ In Bid for Control of Elections, Trump Loyalists Face Few 
Obstacles, N.Y. Times (Dec. 11, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/12/
11/us/politics/trust-in-elections-trump-democracy.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    It is also notable that many of the same individuals who were 
involved in anti-democracy efforts before the 2020 Presidential 
election and in the run-up to and during the January 6 insurrection are 
now leading these efforts to change the rules of elections. Again, we 
want to be clear: These efforts to change election rules are premised 
on baseless accusations and lies, not verifiable evidence or even 
plausible allegations of fraud.\155\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \155\ 10 Voter Fraud Lies Debunked, Brennan Center for Justice (May 
27, 2020), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/10-
voter-fraud-lies-debunked; Factbox: Trump's False claims debunked: the 
2020 election and Jan. 6 riot, Reuters (Jan. 6, 2022), https://
www.reuters.com/world/us/trumps-false-claims-debunked-2020-election-
jan-6-riot-2022-01-06/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Last November, Doug Mastriano announced legislation to repeal Act 
77,\156\ the law that had established no-excuse mail voting in 
Pennsylvania,\157\ even though he voted for its passage in 2019.\158\ 
He has also supported challenges to Act 77 in Pennsylvania's courts. 
When the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court struck down Act 77 in January 
of this year,\159\ Mastriano said that he ``welcome[s] the end of `no-
excuse' mail-in voting in Pennsylvania.''\160\ Pennsylvania's Supreme 
Court later stayed the lower court's decision,\161\ allowing Act 77 to 
remain in effect while the U.S. Supreme Court weighs the appeal.\162\ 
Mastriano also initiated a so-called ``forensic investigation'' of the 
2020 Presidential election,\163\ though he was later stymied in those 
efforts by fellow Republican and Pennsylvania Senate President Pro 
Tempore Jake Corman.\164\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \156\ Op-Ed: Election Reform--Let the People Decide, Senator Doug 
Mastriano (May 4, 2021), https://senatormastriano.com/2021/05/04/op-ed-
election-reform-let-the-people-decide/; Pennsylvania court strikes down 
no-excuse mail voting law CBS News (Jan. 28, 2022), https://
www.cbsnews.com/news/mail-in-voting-ballots-struck-down-pennsylvania.
    \157\ Pennsylvania court strikes down no-excuse mail voting law, 
CBS News (Jan. 28, 2022), https://www.cbsnews.com/news/mail-in-voting-
ballots-struck-down-pennsylvania/.
    \158\ Details for Senate RCS No. 311, Pennsylvania State Senate 
(Oct. 29, 2019), https://www.legis.state.pa.us/CFDOCS/Legis/RC/Public/- 
rc_view_action2.cfm?sess_yr=2019&sess_ind=0&rc_body=S&rc_nbr=311.
    \159\ Pennsylvania court strikes down no-excuse mail voting law CBS 
News (Jan. 28, 2022), https://www.cbsnews.com/news/mail-in-voting-
ballots-struck-down-pennsylvania/.
    \160\ Pennsylvania court strikes down State's no-excuse absentee/
mail-in voting law, Ballotpedia News (Feb. 2, 2022), https://
news.ballotpedia.org/2022/02/02/pennsylvania-court-strikes-down-states-
no-excuse-absentee-mail-in-voting-law/.
    \161\ McLinko et al. v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania et al., Case 
Nos. J-18A-2022, J-18B-2022, J-18C-2022, J-18D-2022, J-18E-2022 (Penn. 
S. Ct. Mar. 1, 2022).
    \162\ Pa. Supreme Court weighs future of State's popular mail 
voting law, The Philadelphia Inquirer (Mar. 8, 2022), https://
www.inquirer.com/politics/pennsylvania/spl/pennsylvania-mail-voting-
supreme-court-hearing-20220308.html&outputType=app-web-view.
    \163\ Op-Ed: Why I am initiating a forensic investigation of the 
2020 General Election and 2021 Primary, Senator Doug Mastriano (July 7, 
2021), https://senatormastriano.com/2021/07/07/op-ed-why-i-am-
initiating-a-forensic-investigation-of-the-2020-general-election-and-
2021-primary/.
    \164\ Here's why State Sen. Doug Mastriano says Pa. election audit 
`stopped for the time being'1 GoErie (Aug. 20, 2021), https://
www.goerie.com/story/news/2021/08/20/pa-election-audit-mastriano-trump/
8198996002/; see also Frontrunning Pa. Governor candidate still focused 
on unproven election fraud claims, PennLive (Mar. 19, 2022), https://
www.pennlive.com/news/2022/03/leading-candidate-for-pa-governor-
amplifies-false-unproven-stolen-election-narrative.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    John Eastman, who wrote the now-infamous memoranda about Pence's 
purported ability to overturn the 2020 Presidential election on January 
6, penned a new memorandum regarding the supposed right of Wisconsin's 
State legislature to overturn the State's Presidential election 
results.\165\ In a memorandum to Wisconsin State Assemblyman Timothy 
Ramthun, Eastman argued that ``State legislatures . . . do have the 
authority to de-certify the election of Presidential electors in their 
State upon a definitive showing of illegality and/or fraud in the 
conduct of the election sufficient to have altered the results of the 
election.''\166\ Eastman concluded that the State legislature could 
then ``appoint electors as it sees fit.''\167\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \165\ Wisconsin Is Ground Zero for the MAGA Effort to Steal the 
Next Election, Rolling Stone (Feb. 6, 2022), https://
www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-features/trump-wisconsin-
eastman-election-decertification-1295191/.
    \166\ John Eastman Letter to Representative Timothy Ramthun (Dec. 
30, 2021), https://bloximages.chicago2.vip.townnews.com/madison.com/- 
content/tncms/assets/v3/editorial/7/dc/7dca5f5e-6d6d-5527-8c82-
cfe4dbf52236/6201a1a5e6d38.pdf.
    \167\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Arizona Republican Chairwoman Kelli Ward has been a vocal supporter 
of legislative and judicial efforts in Arizona to limit voting 
rights.\168\ She has also publicly shamed Republican legislators who 
did not support so-called ``election integrity'' bills, tweeting: 
``Keep your eyes open AFTER the legislative session to see what rewards 
Boyer and Ugenti-Rita get from the swamp for killing #ElectionIntegrity 
bills in the Senate . . . ''.\169\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \168\ Arizona Republicans Seek to Stop Early Voting with Supreme 
Court Lawsuit, Phoenix New Times (Mar. 2, 2022), https://
www.phoenixnewtimes.com/news/arizona-republican-yvonne-cahill-sues-
katie-hobbs-in-lawsuit-that-could-end-early-voting-13135090; Kelli Ward 
(@kelliwardaz), Twitter (Feb. 28, 2022), https://twitter.com/
kelliwardaz/status/1498466919908737028.
    \169\ Kelli Ward (@kelliwardaz), Twitter (Mar. 14, 2022) https://
twitter.com/kelliwardaz/status/1503509426224869376; Arizona State 
senators block a dozen GOP-sponsored election reform bills, Courthouse 
News Service (Mar. 14, 2022), https://www.courthousenews.com/arizona-
state-senators-block-a-dozen-gop-sponsored-election-reform-bills/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Arizona State Representative Mark Finchem recently introduced HCR 
2033, a concurrent resolution ``calling for the elections of Maricopa, 
Pima, and Yuma counties to be set aside based on clear and convincing 
evidence that the elections in those counties were irredeemably 
compromised.''\170\ Arizona also recently enacted a new law requiring 
proof of citizenship to vote in Presidential elections,\171\ which 
voting rights groups estimate could disenfranchise tens of thousands of 
people who are entitled to vote but lack the required 
documentation.\172\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \170\ News Release, Representative Finchem Introduces Resolution to 
Set Aside & Decertify Three 2020 County Elections, Arizona House of 
Representatives, Representative Mark Finchem (Feb. 7, 2022) https://
www.azleg.gov/press/house/55LEG/2R/220207FINCHEMHCR2033.pdf.
    \171\ H.B. 2492, Arizona Fifty-fifth Legislature--Second Regular 
Session, https://apps.azleg.gov/BillStatus/BillOverview/76970.
    \172\ Arizona Passes Proof-of-Citizenship Law for Voting In 
Presidential Elections, N.Y. Times (Mar. 31, 2022), https://
www.nytimes.com/2022/03/31/us/politics/arizona-voting-bill-
citizenship.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In Texas, Attorney General Paxton, who previously stated that Trump 
``would've lost the election'' in Texas had his office not convinced 
the State Supreme Court to prevent Harris County from sending 
applications for mail-in ballots to all registered voters,\173\ formed 
a ``2021 Texas Election Integrity Unit'' in an effort to ``devote 
agency lawyers, investigators, support staff, and resources to ensuring 
this local election season . . . is run transparently and 
securely.''\174\ It was ``specially tasked with overseeing the 2021 
election season.''\175\ Paxton also sought to indict a county clerk 
based on her administration of the 2020 Presidential election, though 
the case was rejected by a grand jury.\176\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \173\ Texas AG Says Trump Would've `Lost' State If It Hadn't 
Blocked Mail-In Ballots Applications Being Sent Out, Newsweek (June 5, 
2021), https://www.newsweek.com/texas-ag-says-trump-wouldve-lost-state-
if-it-hadnt-blocked-mail-ballots-applications-being-1597909.
    \174\ AG Paxton Announces Formation of 2021 Texas Election 
Integrity Unit, Press Release (Oct. 18, 2021), https://
www.texasattorneygeneral.gov/news/releases/ag-paxton-announces-
formation-2021-texas-election-integrity-unit.
    \175\ Id.
    \176\ Amid Texas GOP's effort to question electoral integrity, 
attorney general tried to indict Travis County elections chief, The 
Texas Tribune (Dec. 20, 2021), https://www.texastribune.org/2021/12/20/
texas-ken-paxton-travis-county-elections/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Colorado HB 1204 was introduced by Representative Ron Hanks to 
overhaul the State's election system. The bill did not make it out of 
committee, but would have eliminated early voting, both in person and 
by mail, unless the voter had requested an absentee ballot based on a 
``valid'' excuse.\177\ Otherwise, all ballots would need to be cast in 
person on Election Day, and then counted by hand within 24 hours after 
the polls have closed.\178\ Further, the bill would have withdrawn 
Colorado from the Electronic Registration Information Center (ERIC), a 
non-profit organization of States that helps to ``improve the accuracy 
of America's voter rolls and increase access to voter registration for 
all eligible citizens.''\179\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \177\ HB22-1204 Election Systems, Colorado General Assembly, 
https://leg.colorado.gov/bills/hb22-1204.
    \178\ Id.
    \179\ Ensuring the Efficiency And Integrity of America's Voter 
Rolls, Election Registration Information Center, https://
ericstates.org/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Virginia State Senator Amanda Chase previously said she was working 
with Sidney Powell ``to expose what I and others believe is extensive 
fraud here in Virginia,''\180\ and has now introduced SB 605, a bill 
that would require a ``forensic audit'' of the results of the 2020 
election and create a process for future citizen-initiated audits.\181\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \180\ GOP gubernatorial candidate in Virginia calls on Trump to 
declare martial law, The Hill (Dec. 15, 2020), https://thehill.com/
homenews/campaign/530291-gop-gubernatorial-candidate-in-virginia-calls-
on-trump-todeclare-martial.
    \181\ SB 605 Conduct of election, election results, post-election 
forensic audits, Virginia's Legislative Information System, https://
lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+sum+SB605.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Attorney Erick Kaardal appeared in Wisconsin conducting on-camera 
interviews of people at nursing homes and questioning the mental 
capacity of elderly people who voted in 2020.\182\ Attorney Cleta 
Mitchell, who helped Trump pressure Georgia Secretary of State Brad 
Raffensperger to overturn the election results there, was quietly 
appointed to the board of advisors for the U.S. Election Assistance 
Commission, which was created after the controversial 2000 Presidential 
election recount in Florida ``to serve as a clearinghouse for election 
administration information and provide voluntary guidance to 
States.''\183\ Additionally, Michael Flynn and Roger Stone just 
recently announced an initiative to train election volunteers in eight 
closely contested States to ``expose shenanigans at the ballot 
box.''\184\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \182\ In conspiracy-laden `circus' Gableman attacks Wisconsin 
election administration, Wisconsin Examiner (Mar. 2, 2022), https://
wisconsinexaminer.com/2022/03/02/in-conspiracy-laden-circus-gableman-
attacks-wisconsin-election-administration/.
    \183\ How a lawyer who aided Trump's 2020 subversion efforts was 
named to a Federal election advisory board CNN (Nov. 18, 2021), https:/
/www.cnn.com/2021/11/18/politics/cleta-mitchell-election-assistance-
commission-advisor/index.html.
    \184\ Patrick Byrne, Gen. Flynn, Roger Stone Announce New Election 
Integrity Initiative In Orlando, PJ Media (Feb. 26, 2022), https://
pjmedia.com/news-and-politics/jeff-reynolds/2022/02/26/patrick-byrne-
gen-flynn-roger-stone-announce-new-election-integrity-initiative-in-
orlando-n1562049; General Flynn, Patrick Byrne, Roger Stone, Joe Flynn 
Will Unveil Bi-Partisan Election Integrity Initiative at CPAC, PR 
Newswire (Feb. 23, 2022), https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/
general-flynn-patrick-byrne-roger-stone-joe-flynn-will-unveil-bi-
partisan-election-integrity-initiative-at-cpac-301488663.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
b. Replacing the Refs
    As we mentioned earlier, the strategy since January 6 has been two-
fold: First, change the rules governing elections, and then, change the 
people who enforce those rules. When elections are run by anti-
democracy operatives, then those same people can control the outcomes. 
Since 2020, election deniers have lined up to oversee voting at all 
levels of the system, from State-wide officials to precinct-level poll 
workers.
    We are tracking the trend of election deniers running for State-
wide office as part of a research project Replacing the Refs.\185\ To 
qualify as an election denier, a candidate must have falsely claimed 
that Trump won the 2020 election, spread lies about the legitimacy of 
the 2020 Presidential election, called for a ``forensic audit'' of the 
2020 Presidential election after the results were certified or 
otherwise finalized, promoted conspiracies about the 2020 Presidential 
election, and/or taken actions to undermine the integrity of the 2020 
Presidential election, including, for example, participating in a Stop 
the Steal event.\186\ We have found that, as of April 4, 2022, at least 
53 election deniers are running for Governor in 25 States, at least 13 
election deniers are running for attorney general in 13 States, and at 
least 23 election deniers are running for secretary of state in 19 
States.\187\ Put another way, an election denier is running in 2 out of 
3 races for Governor and secretary of state, and 1 out of 3 races for 
attorney general. In addition, 9 States have election deniers running 
in all 3 State-wide races.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \185\ Replacing the Refs, States United Democracy Center, https://
statesuniteddemocracy.org/resources/replacingtherefs/.
    \186\ Id.
    \187\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    It's not just top-line State-wide roles that are important to 
election administration. In fact, local races--such as judges and 
inspectors of elections--can be just as impactful.\188\ People in these 
types of positions oversee polling locations and safeguard the counting 
of votes. Although partisan judges or inspectors might only affect a 
small number of votes per precinct, their cumulative effect could tilt 
State-wide elections.\189\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \188\ The Desperate Scramble to Stop an Insider Election Threat The 
Atlantic (Nov. 14, 2021), https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/
2021/11/pennsylvania-election-threat/620684/.
    \189\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Election deniers are focusing on these positions, too. Last year, 
in two of Pennsylvania's 67 counties--York and Lancaster--almost a 
dozen candidates for judge or inspector of elections were election 
deniers.\190\ One election denier--who ran to be judge of elections in 
his precinct--organized buses traveling to Washington, DC for the 
January 6 ``Stop the Steal'' rally.\191\ He was viewed as being so 
outside the mainstream that a fellow Republican urged the leader of the 
local Democratic committee to find someone to run against him.\192\ He 
won anyway.\193\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \190\ Id.
    \191\ Id.; How January 6 changed what it means to be a Republican 
in one Pennsylvania county, CNN (Jan. 5, 2022), https://www.cnn.com/
2022/01/05/politics/jan-6-capitol-riot-lancaster-republicans/
index.html.
    \192\ How January 6 changed what it means to be a Republican in one 
Pennsylvania county, CNN (Jan. 5, 2022), https://www.cnn.com/2022/01/
05/politics/jan-6-capitol-riot-lancaster-republicans/index.html.
    \193\ In Bid for Control of Elections, Trump Loyalists Face Few 
Obstacles, N.Y. Times (Dec. 11, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/12/
11/us/politics/trust-in-elections-trump-democracy.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In addition, many of the election deniers who participated in the 
events of January 6 in some respect are now following up on those 
efforts by running for positions that would allow them to administer 
elections. One is Doug Mastriano, the Pennsylvania State senator who 
quickly jumped on the anti-democracy bandwagon. He is now the 
Republican nominee in the race for Governor of Pennsylvania, at the 
encouragement of Trump.\194\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \194\ Frontrunning Pa. Governor candidate still focused on unproven 
election fraud claims, Penn Live Patriot-News (Mar. 20, 2022); https://
www.pennlive.com/news/2022/03/leading-candidate-for-pa-governor-
amplifies-false-unproven-stolen-election-narrative.html How a Trump 
ally rode Trump's election fraud lie to political prominence, Politico 
(June 16, 2021), https://www.politico.com/news/2021/06/17/doug-
mastriano-trump-pennsylvania-494796; Doug Mastriano has won the GOP 
primary for Pa. Governor after a campaign fueled by election lies, The 
Philadelphia Inquirer (May 18, 2022), https://www.inquirer.com/
politics/election/doug-mastriano-wins-pa-republican-primary-governor-
20220517.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Arizona State Representative Mark Finchem is running to be 
Arizona's secretary of state--and he has Trump's endorsement.\195\ It 
is not surprising, then, that he has made the Big Lie a central tenet 
of his campaign.\196\ So too has Tim Ramthun, who is running for 
Governor of Wisconsin and states on his campaign website that he ``will 
call for an independent full forensic physical cyber audit for the 
November 2022 election, beginning with my race regardless of the 
outcome.''\197\ He has Mike Lindell's endorsement.\198\ In Texas, Ken 
Paxton won the Republican run-off in his bid for another term as 
Attorney General and is now the party's nominee.\199\ Ron Hanks is 
running to be a United States Senator from Colorado.\200\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \195\ Mark Finchem, election conspiracy promoter, gets Trump's 
endorsement for secretary of state, AZCentral (Sept. 13, 2021), https:/
/www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/elections/2021/09/13/trump-
endorses-mark-finchem-arizona-secretary-state-election/8322839002/.
    \196\ Trump followers zero in on secretary of state campaigns, 
Politico (Jan. 24, 2022), https://www.politico.com/news/2022/01/24/
trump-secretary-of-state-campaigns-00000473.
    \197\ Wisconsin Is Ground Zero for the MAGA Effort to Steal the 
Next Election, Rolling Stone (Feb. 6, 2022), https://
www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-features/trump-wisconsin-
eastman-election-decertification-1295191/; Ramthun for Governor, 
https://www.ramthunforgovernor.com/.
    \198\ Wisconsin Is Ground Zero for the MAGA Effort to Steal the 
Next Election, Rolling Stone (Feb. 6, 2022), https://
www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-features/trump-wisconsin-
eastman-election-decertification-1295191/.
    \199\ Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton easily defeats George P. 
Bush in GOP primary runoff, The Texas Tribune (May 24, 2022), https://
www.texastribune.org/2022/05/24/texas-attorney-general-runoff-results-
ken-paxton-george-p-bush/.
    \200\ Controversial Republican State Rep. Ron Hanks files to run 
for U.S. Senate in 2022, Colorado Sun (Oct. 1, 2021), https://
coloradosun.com/2021/10/01/ron-hanks-announces-senate-bid/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The Big Lie has also been fully incorporated into the dogma of the 
QAnon movement, which, in turn, has promoted the candidacies of 
election deniers. The Guardian reported earlier this year that QAnon 
``played a critical role in steering far-right candidates toward the 
secretary of state races as part of what appears to be a calculated 
Nation-wide assault on American democracy.''\201\ Jim Marchant, a 
candidate for Nevada secretary of State, revealed last year that the 
idea for him to run was not his own; he was approached by a QAnon 
figure known as Juan O Savin,\202\ who is involved in a QAnon 
``project'' to ``help[] candidates across the country.''\203\ In 
addition, Ron Watkins, who is widely believed to be ``Q'' (or one of 
possibly two ``Qs'')\204\ wrote a baseless affidavit used in 2020 
election litigation stating that voting machines used software 
``designed . . . to facilitate digital ballot stuffing via simple vote 
result manipulation.''\205\ Sidney Powell filed the affidavit in her 
Georgia lawsuit targeting the State's use of Dominion Voting Systems' 
voting machines.\206\ Watkins has since announced he is running for 
Congress in Arizona as his ``next step'' in getting ``really involved 
in election integrity issues.''\207\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \201\ `We have a project': QAnon followers eye swing State election 
official races, The Guardian (Feb. 11, 2022), https://
www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/feb/11/qanon-donald-trump-big-lie-
elections-swing-states.
    \202\ Id.
    \203\ Id.
    \204\ Who is Behind QAnon? Linguistic Department Finds 
Fingerprints, N.Y. Times (Feb. 19, 2022), https://www.nytimes.com/2022/
02/19/technology/qanon-messages-authors.html.
    \205\ Former Trump Lawyer Sidney Powell Cites QAnon Promoter in 
Voter Fraud Lawsuit, Daily Beast (Dec. 1, 2020), https://
www.thedailybeast.com/former-trump-lawyer-sidney-powell-cites-qanon-
backer-ron-watkins-in-voter-fraud-lawsuit-affidavit; To boost voter-
fraud claims, Trump advocate Sidney Powell turns to unusual source: The 
longtime operator of QAnon's Internet home, Wash. Post (Dec. 1, 2020), 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2020/12/01/powell-cites-
qanon-watkins/.
    \206\ To boost voter-fraud claims, Trump advocate Sidney Powell 
turns to unusual source: The longtime operator of QAnon's Internet 
home, Wash. Post (Dec. 1, 2020), https://www.washingtonpost.com/
technology/2020/12/01/powell-cites-qanon-watkins/; Setting the Record 
Straight: Facts & Rumors, Dominion Voting (Apr. 12, 2022), https://
www.dominionvoting.com/strs-georgia/; Pearson v. Kemp, No. 1:20-cv-
04809-TCB (N.D. Ga.).
    \207\ QAnon figure says he's running for Congress to secure 
elections, Arizona Capitol Times (Oct. 18, 2021), https://
azcapitoltimes.com/news/2021/10/18/qanon-figure-says-hes-running-for-
congress-to-fix-elections/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Our studies have concluded that election deniers are attempting to 
take steps to be able to control administration of future elections 
across the United States. Our findings also illustrate a related, and 
important, point: Many of the efforts to replace existing officials 
with election deniers do not involve replacing a Democrat with a 
Republican. Rather, we find that it is often non-election-denying 
Republicans who face challenges from election deniers.\208\ Especially 
in light of the many Republicans who have stood up to the Big Lie and 
supported the rule of law, the attempted takeover of our election 
system is not a partisan issue; it is a question of one's commitment to 
democracy and the rule of law as opposed to embracing the anti-
democracy notion that voters should not determine the outcome of 
elections.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \208\ Secretary of State Races in 2022, States United Democracy 
Center (Mar. 1, 2022), https://statesuniteddemocracy.org/wp-content/
uploads/2022/03/sos_deniers-2.html#3_Secretary_of_State_Races_in_2022 
(example: Georgia).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
c. Anti-Democracy Pressures Today
    Where candidates who publicly embrace the Big Lie have seen their 
political fortunes soar, others who refuse to accede to this anti-
democracy movement have faced substantial backlash, including from 
members of their own party. As the Associated Press aptly explained, 
signing onto the Big Lie is a ``litmus test,'' and former President 
Trump and his supporters will ``shame--and potentially remove--members 
of their party'' who do not pass the test.\209\ For example, U.S. 
Senator Mitt Romney was booed by a crowd, even as he reminded them that 
he was once the Republican Party's nominee for President. In Texas, the 
only anti-Trump Republican in a special election for a Congressional 
seat finished in ninth place.\210\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \209\ Whose `Big Lie'? Trump's proclamation a new GOP litmus test, 
AP (May 3, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/politics-campaign-2016-
election-2020-government-and-politics-f3428d42d4d3fdfe59c560b6fadbbc70.
    \210\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    In perhaps the clearest sign of the split within the Republican 
Party between pro-and anti-democracy factions, Republicans who refuse 
to embrace the Big Lie have been censured. At the Georgia Republican 
Party's 2021 convention, Raffensperger was censured for ``dereliction 
of his constitutional duty,'' and the censure called for him to 
``commit [himself] to securing Georgia's elections.''\211\ In Arizona, 
the Republican Party censured Cindy McCain, former Senator Jeff Flake, 
and Governor Doug Ducey, all of whom refused to support the effort to 
overturn the 2020 Presidential election.\212\ As you are well aware, 
just a couple of months ago, the Republican National Committee censured 
Reps. Liz Cheney and Adam Kinzinger, the only two House Republicans who 
agreed to join this Select Committee.\213\ The censure resolution 
famously denounced this committee for supposedly persecuting ``ordinary 
citizens engaged in legitimate political discourse.''\214\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \211\ Kemp booed and Raffensperger censured at Georgia GOP 
convention, CNN Politics (June 5, 2021), https://www.cnn.com/2021/06/
05/politics/brad-raffensperger-brian-kemp-georgia-republican-
convention/index.html.
    \212\ Arizona Republicans censure Cindy McCain, GOP Governor, AP 
(Jan. 23, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/donald-trump-race-and-
ethnicity-censures-arizona-lawsuits-a50165b9d5c4468d5d1bb434c5e9c80a; 
Arizona GOP censures Flake, Ducey and McCain, signaling a fractured 
party in a key swing state, CNN Politics (Jan. 24, 2021), https://
www.cnn.com/2021/01/23/politics/arizona-gop-censure-mccain-flake-ducey/
index.html.
    \213\ RNC votes to censure Reps. Liz Cheney and Adam Kinzinger over 
work with Jan. 6 panel, NPR (Feb. 4, 2022), https://www.npr.org/2022/
02/04/1078316505/rnc-censure-liz-cheney-adam-kinzinger-jan-6-committee-
capitol.
    \214\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Meanwhile, threats of violence against election officials have 
exploded in number, against both Democrats and Republicans. According 
to Reuters, ``[s]ome of the most severe threats'' were those directed 
at Republican officials in Georgia,\215\ including Raffensperger. 
Threats were also made against Philadelphia's two Democratic city 
commissioners, Lisa Deeley and Omar Sabir.\216\ Philadelphia's third 
city commissioner, Republican Al Schmidt, who tweeted at Trump on the 
morning after the 2020 election, also received multiple death threats. 
They were so serious that police officers were stationed outside his 
home and his family received a security detail.\217\ He has since 
resigned.\218\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \215\ U.S. election workers get little help from law enforcement as 
terror threats mount Reuters (Sept. 8, 2021), https://www.reuters.com/
investigates/special-report/usa-election-threats-law-enforcement/.
    \216\ Id.
    \217\ Id.
    \218\ Al Schmidt resigns as city commissioner to lead Committee of 
Seventy PhillyVoice (Nov. 30, 2021), https://www.phillyvoice.com/al-
schmidt-philadelphia-city-commissioners-committee-of-seventy/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    A survey commissioned by the Brennan Center for Justice found that 
``one in three election officials feel unsafe because of their job,'' 
and ``nearly one in five listed threats to their lives as a job-related 
concern.''\219\ Reuters conducted a separate investigation and found 
``hundreds of incidents of intimidation and harassment of election 
workers and officials Nation-wide.''\220\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \219\ Election Officials Under Attack, Brennan Center for Justice 
(June 16, 2021), https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/policy-
solutions/election-officials-under-attack.
    \220\ U.S. election workers get little help from law enforcement as 
terror threats mount, Reuters (Sept. 8, 2021), https://www.reuters.com/
investigates/special-report/usa-election-threats-law-enforcement/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The threats have been directed not only at public officials, but 
also voters. According to a recently filed lawsuit, an organization 
called ``United States Election Integrity Plan'' is ``deploying its 
agents, who are sometimes armed, to go door-to-door around Colorado to 
intimidate voters.''\221\ The individual defendants, who are founders 
of USEIP, are employed and paid by Mike Lindell,\222\ and USEIP thanks 
Lindell in its organizing manual.\223\ One of the defendants appeared 
on Steve Bannon's podcast to discuss the organization, which he said 
would ``help coordinate the election integrity efforts of citizens 
across the country.''\224\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \221\ Colorado Montana Wyoming State Area Conference of the NAACP, 
et al. v. United States Election Integrity Plan, et al., Case No. 1:22-
cv-00581 (D. Colo. Mar. 9, 2022), ECF No. 1; Colorado election deniers 
sued by civil rights groups over door-to-door ``intimidation,'' The 
Durango Herald (Mar. 15, 2022), https://www.durangoherald.com/articles/
colorado-election-deniers-sued-by-civil-rights-groups-over-door-to-
door-intimidation/.
    \222\ Id.
    \223\ Lawsuit seeks to stop group's door-to-door voter fraud hunt, 
AP (Mar. 9, 2022), https://apnews.com/article/voting-rights-2022-
midterm-elections-biden-steve-bannon-colorado-
63beba2f69226f53ed305457c47a83ea.
    \224\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    According to Ipsos research, 24 percent of Americans agree that 
``sometimes it is okay to engage in violence to protect American 
democracy.''\225\ And as we described, the dissemination of the Big Lie 
by election deniers and the menacing threats directed at government 
officials and election workers have contributed substantially to this 
trend toward intimidation, threats, and violence.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \225\ Seven in ten Americans say the country is in crisis, at risk 
of failing Ipsos (Jan. 3, 2022), https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/seven-ten-
americans-say-country-crisis-risk-failing.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Perhaps most alarming, it is not as if dissemination of the Big Lie 
is relegated to shadowy corners of the internet. To the contrary, in 
fact, it has infiltrated major news media outlets. For example, Fox 
Nation, Fox News Channel's streaming service, presented a three-part 
``documentary'' series about the January 6 insurrection produced by Fox 
host Tucker Carlson.\226\ PolitiFact found that the series ``attempted 
to rewrite the events of the insurrection'' by ``float[ing] several 
conspiracies . . . including that the violence was instigated by left-
wing activists, that it may have been an FBI-led false flag, and that 
the government is using it to strip millions of Trump voters of their 
Constitutional rights.''\227\ These theories have been repeatedly and 
definitively debunked.\228\ Chris Wallace, a former Fox News host, 
recently confirmed that he had complained to Fox News management about 
the series and that the network's treatment of the broadcast 
contributed to his departure.\229\ These events demonstrate the 
critical role that the press and news media must play in combatting 
false and baseless statements by anti-democracy activists--and the 
concomitant risks when they are co-opted as part of the anti-democracy 
movement.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \226\ Tucker Carlson Is Stirring Up Hatred of America The Atlantic 
(Nov. 2, 2021), https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/11/
patriot-purge-tucker-carlson-documentary/620589/.
    \227\ Tucker Carlson's `Patriot Purge' film on Jan. 6 is full of 
falsehoods, conspiracy theories, Politifact (Nov. 5, 2021), https://
www.politifact.com/article/2021/nov/05/tucker-carlsons-patriot-purge-
film-jan-6-full-fals/.
    \228\ No, there is no evidence that the F.B.I. organized the Jan. 6 
capitol riot, N.Y. Times (June 18, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/
06/18/technology/misinformation-unindicted-co-conspirators-capitol-
riot.html; How Pro-Trump Forces Pushed a Lie About Antifa at the 
Capitol Riot, N.Y. Times (Mar. 1, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/
03/01/us/politics/antifa-conspiracy-capitol-riot.html; Tucker Carlson's 
`Patriot Purge' film on Jan. 6 is full of falsehoods, conspiracy 
theories, Politifact (Nov. 5, 2021), https://www.politifact.com/
article/2021/nov/05/tucker-carlsons-patriot-purge-film-jan-6-full-
fals/.
    \229\ Chris Wallace Says Life at Fox News Became `Unsustainable', 
N.Y. Times (Mar. 27, 2022), https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/27/
business/media/chris-wallace-cnn-fox-news.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Last, election deniers' rampant spreading of anti-democracy 
disinformation has shaped the opinions of the American public to an 
almost unimaginable extent. According to Ipsos, around a third of 
Americans now ``believe there was fraudulent voting in the [2020] 
election,'' and a fifth ``say they are unsure--meaning under half of 
respondents unequivocally state[d] there was no, or very little, 
fraudulent voting in the election.''\230\ That is consistent with a CNN 
poll \231\ showing that 36 percent of Americans do not believe 
President Biden won the election, as well as an NPR/PBS NewsHour/Marist 
poll \232\ finding that 75 percent of Republicans believe there were 
``real cases of fraud that changed the results.'' Similarly, a November 
2021 Monmouth University survey found that ``one-third of the public 
continues to believe voter fraud determined the outcome of the 2020 
election, a finding that has been consistent over the past year.''\233\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \230\ Seven in ten Americans say the country is in crisis, at risk 
of failing, Ipsos (Jan. 3, 2022), https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/seven-
ten-americans-say-country-crisis-risk-failing.
    \231\ CNN (Sept. 15, 2021), http://cdn.cnn.com/cnn/2021/images/09/
15/rel5e.-.elections.pdf.
    \232\ NPR/PBS NewsHour/Marist National Poll: Trust in Elections, 
Threat to Democracy, November 2021, MaristPoll (Nov. 1, 2021), https://
maristpoll.marist.edu/polls/npr-pbs-newshour-marist-national-poll-
trust-in-elections-threat-to-democracy-biden-approval-november-2021/.
    \233\ National: Doubt in American System Increases Monmouth 
University (Nov. 15, 2021), https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/
documents/monmouthpoll_us_111521.pdf/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Because such a substantial number of Americans don't believe the 
results of the 2020 Presidential election, election deniers can point 
to those Americans' lack of confidence as justification for new, 
restrictive voting laws. As Wisconsin State Assembly Speaker Robin Vos 
put it, ``we have to improve the process when literally hundreds of 
thousands of people in Wisconsin doubt that the election was held in a 
way that didn't have substantial charges of fraud.''\234\ Left unsaid 
was that it was election deniers' concerted efforts--first to sow doubt 
in the election before it happened, then to lead efforts to reject the 
certification of the election on January 6, and finally to continue to 
spread disinformation about the election after the fact--that caused 
such ``doubts.''
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \234\ `A Perpetual Motion Machine': How Disinformation Drives 
Voting Laws, N.Y. Times (May 13, 2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/
05/13/us/politics/disinformation-voting-laws.html.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            iii. conclusion
    We close by thanking you for the opportunity to provide this 
important context around the January 6 attack on the Capitol. We hope 
that our statement helps show that the attack was no isolated incident. 
For years before, former President Trump and his allies had sown doubt 
about the integrity of American elections. After the American people 
cast their ballots in 2020, those same people, along with additional 
allies, pursued a multi-pronged strategy to overturn an electoral 
result that they did not like. The strategy involved baseless 
litigation, menacing protests, targeted political pressure, wide-spread 
disinformation, and corrupt legislative schemes.
    Those efforts failed because certain public servants, devoted to 
the rule of law, stood up against the attempted coup and defended our 
republican form of government. Judges dismissed lawsuits that 
threatened our system of free elections. State and local officials--
Republicans and Democrats--spoke truth to power and, despite threats 
against their lives and families, pushed ahead to count every vote. And 
a Vice President, under tremendous pressure to deliver victory to his 
own political tribe, refused to seize a power that was not his. As he 
wrote on January 6, ``my oath to support and defend the Constitution 
constrains me from claiming unilateral authority to determine which 
electoral votes should be counted and which should not.''\235\ Our 
democracy was saved by the courage of people who made the choice to do 
right, in positions where those choices made all the difference.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \235\ Read Pence's Full Letter Saying he Can't Claim `Unilateral 
Authority' to Reject Electoral Votes, AP (Jan. 6, 2021), https://
www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/read-pences-full-letter-saying-he-cant-
claim-unilateral-authority-to-reject-electoral-votes.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    But the anti-democracy movement has adapted and is acting today to 
ensure that people with courage and devotion to the rule of law are not 
in positions to safeguard elections in the coming years. The same group 
that stoked fears of voter fraud in 2020, that sought to undermine the 
electoral process and overturn the results, that incited the mob that 
stormed the Capitol--Trump, Giuliani, Powell, Eastman, Stone, Bannon, 
Lindell, Flynn, Paxton, Ward, Finchem, Mastriano, Ramthun, Alexander, 
Watkins, Chase, Kaardal, Hanks, and many more in Statehouses and on 
county boards or city councils across the country--are working now to 
change the game and replace the refs. They are working to ensure that 
2020 was the last time that they will ever be denied control over 
Government in this country--regardless of what the voters say.
    In short, the movement against American democracy did not begin or 
end on January 6, 2021. It is strong and growing today, and it requires 
a profound and powerful response. Thank you.
Joint Statement of Renee DiResta, Technical Research Manager, Stanford 
   Internet Observatory,Stanford University and Kate Starbird, PhD, 
   Associate Professor, Human-Centered Design & Engineering, and Co-
  Founder and Director, Center for an Informed Public, University of 
                               Washington
[GRAPHICS NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

                                 [all]
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 176 (Tuesday, November 15, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Page S6678]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           MIDTERM ELECTIONS

  Mr. SCHUMER. Now, Mr. President, on the midterm elections and MAGA 
Republicanism, over the past week, there has been a lot of discussion 
here in Washington and across the media about how the results of these 
midterms defied history and defied conventional wisdom.
  I remember back in April and May: No way Democrats are going to keep 
the majority. They are going to lose a whole bunch of seats. People are 
asking what happened. Well, I think the answer, however, is rather 
simple. This year, Democrats ran strong candidates. We compiled an 
extremely strong legislative record, which the candidates could run on. 
And Republicans, on the other hand, ran with flawed candidates who 
spent more time talking about MAGA extremism than the things that truly 
mattered to the American people.
  After the failures--Republican failures--in elections in 2018 and 
2020 and now in 2022, I hope the message is sinking in. If Republicans 
continue to embrace MAGA radicalism, they are going to keep losing. So 
for their own sake, but more importantly for the sake of the country, I 
hope that very soon the GOP rejects the MAGA wing and makes a 
commitment to work with Democrats in the next Congress.
  The worst thing Republicans can do right now is to double down on the 
MAGA platform and embrace gridlock. But, sadly, it seems that is the 
path that some on the other side still want to take.
  In fact, Senator Rick Scott of Florida, who notoriously led the 
unsuccessful Republican Senate campaign efforts, recently suggested 
that one of the reasons Republicans lost on election day was because 
they actually worked too much with Democrats to pass bipartisan 
legislation; that they weren't MAGA enough. That defies all logic.
  If Republicans want to follow Rick Scott's lead, make our day. 
Following Senator Scott is like following a blind man right over the 
cliff.
  Remember, it was Senator Scott who released a platform calling for 
tax hikes on working and middle Americans, which our candidates 
reminded people of in the election over and over again. It was Senator 
Scott who threatened to put Medicare and Social Security on the 
chopping block, which, again, was one of the most powerful arguments 
for why Republicans were wrong for the country. And it was Senator 
Scott who embraced Trump and believed that the MAGA wing was the road 
to success; that denying the elections and spreading the Big Lie, 
encouraging the MAGA extreme wing was the right thing to do. The 
American people knew better.
  American voters ran in the opposite direction and voted for 
Democrats, including many Republicans, who said: I may be a Reagan 
Republican, I may be a Bush Republican, but this Republican Party ain't 
one for me.
  After three failed elections--three in a row--it should be obvious 
that embracing MAGA is a total loser for the Republican Party. If 
anyone thinks otherwise, just look at what happened last night in 
purple Arizona. Katie Hobbs, the Democratic nominee for Governor, was 
declared the winner in her race against Kari Lake. Everyone thought 
Kari Lake would win because of her communication skills, but even she 
lost--proof positive that MAGA just doesn't work.
  I earnestly hope that in the next couple of months, Republicans will 
realize it is better for the country--and even better for their party--
to focus instead on working with Democrats over the next 2 years to get 
things done for the American people.
  Now, I know this is not going to happen overnight or in the next week 
or two. Our immediate focus, of course, is the lameduck, where there is 
a lot of work to be done. But when the dust settles come January and 
Republicans have, hopefully, resolved some of their own internal 
fights, we hope that at least some of them will realize that the 
scorched-earth MAGA policy is a failure not only for America but for 
them.
  The usual pundits and skeptics and critics are saying: Oh, this won't 
happen. But look at the major bills we did this summer, five of them 
major bills, bipartisan, and before that, the BIF bill, the Postal 
bill, all done bipartisan--significant legislation. We Democrats are 
going to work hard to replicate that effort.
  Americans are tired of the chaos. They are tired of the MAGA 
insanity. They are tired of the MAGA attack on the very roots of our 
democracy. They want leaders who will take their problems seriously. 
Most Americans know that Donald Trump is out for himself and only 
himself, even if it hurts democracy, even if it hurts the Republican 
Party. Republicans should learn that lesson or risk even more failure 
in the future.

                          ____________________

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 11 (Tuesday, January 18, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Page S259]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               H.R. 5746

  Mr. ROMNEY. Madam President, I have enjoyed the discussion which has 
been going on with regard to this legislation and have a couple of 
comments. One is, given the interest and the priority of and the 
importance of elections, it would have been helpful, prior to preparing 
this legislation for a vote, if those that were the drafters of this 
legislation actually invited a Republican--any Republican--to sit down 
and perhaps negotiate and see if we could find some common ground.
  But instead, the Democrat leadership dusted off what they had written 
before on an entirely partisan basis and then are shocked--shocked--
that Republicans don't want to support what they drafted.
  Now, I note that political overstatement and hyperbole may be 
relatively common, and they are often excused. But the President and 
some of my Democratic colleagues have ventured deep into hysteria. 
Their cataclysmic predictions for failing to support their entirely 
partisan election reform--worked out entirely by themselves, without 
any input whatsoever from any single person on my side of the aisle--
they are far beyond the pale.
  Now, they are entirely right to call out Donald Trump's Big Lie about 
the last election being stolen. But in the same spirit of honesty, they 
should not engage in a similar lie that Republicans across the country 
are making it much harder for minorities to vote and, thus, that the 
Federal government must urgently displace centuries of constitutional 
practice that give States primary control over elections.
  So dire are the consequences, they claim, that this must be done by 
shredding the rules of our senior legislative body. They point to 
Georgia as evidence of political election villainy. The President went 
there to deliver his crowning argument. But, as has been pointed out by 
many before me, it is easier for minorities--and everybody else for 
that matter--to vote in Georgia than it is in the President's home 
State of Delaware and in Leader Schumer's home State of New York.
  In Georgia there are more days of early voting, and in Georgia there 
is no-excuse absentee voting by mail.
  They do decry Georgia's prohibition of political activists 
approaching voters in line with drinks of water, but the same 
prohibition exists in New York. And why? So that voters don't get 
harassed in line by poll activists.
  Just like Georgia and New York, many States keep poll activists at 
length from voters. My Democrat colleagues conveniently ignore the fact 
that the 1965 Voting Rights Act prohibition of any voting practice or 
procedure that discriminates against minorities is still in effect. 
Even today, the Justice Department is suing two States under that law.
  Protection of minority voting is already required by law. Protection 
of minority voting is a high and essential priority for me and for my 
Senate colleagues on both sides of the aisle.
  To be clear, I want an election system that allows every eligible 
citizen in every State to be able to exercise their right to vote in 
every single election.
  So, putting aside the hysteria, let me explain why I don't support 
the Democrats' bill. First, their bill weakens voter ID. I, along with 
a great majority of voters of all races, favor voter photo ID. Their 
bill makes it easier to cheat by accommodating unmonitored vote 
collection boxes. Their bill opens the gates to a flood of lawsuits 
pre- and post-election, and it weakens the safeguards of voter 
registration.
  There are other things in the Democrats' bill that I don't support. I 
am not in favor of Federal funding for campaigns. I also don't think 
States should be required to allow felons to vote.
  Most fundamentally, I think by reserving election procedures to the 
States, the Founders made it more difficult for a would-be 
authoritarian to change the law for voting in just one place--here in 
Washington--to keep himself in office.
  Let me add that I think the Democrats' bill is insufficiently focused 
on the real threat, and that is the corruption of the counting of the 
ballots, the certification of elections, and the congressional 
provisions for accepting and counting a slate of electors. This is 
where the apparent conspirators were focused in their attempt in the 
last election to subvert democracy and prevent the peaceful transfer of 
power.
  Now, I respect Democrats who disagree with my point of view. I hope 
they will offer me the same respect. People who want voter ID are not 
racists. People who don't want Federal funding of campaigns aren't Bull 
Connor. People who insist that vote drop boxes be monitored aren't 
Jefferson Davis.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from California.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7708 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7708

    To halt removal of certain nationals of Vietnam, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 10, 2022

 Mr. Lowenthal (for himself, Mr. Correa, Mrs. Steel, Mr. Connolly, Ms. 
  Norton, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Meng, Mrs. Watson 
     Coleman, Ms. Porter, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. 
    Velazquez, Ms. Williams of Georgia, Ms. Sanchez, and Ms. Tlaib) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                             the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To halt removal of certain nationals of Vietnam, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Honor Our Commitment Act of 2022''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds as follows:
            (1) From April to September 1975, the United States 
        conducted Operation New Arrival to relocate 130,000 Vietnamese 
        refugees to the United States following the end of the Vietnam 
        War. During this time, more than 50,000 Vietnamese refugees 
        were processed through Camp Pendleton for resettlement in 
        southern California.
            (2) In the 4 decades since they fled Vietnam as refugees, 
        Vietnamese Americans have woven their stories into the American 
        fabric.
            (3) The largest concentrations of Vietnamese Americans can 
        be found in Orange County, California, followed by San Jose 
        (California), Houston (Texas), Seattle (Washington), Northern 
        Virginia, and New Orleans (Louisiana).
            (4) According to the American Community Survey, 1.4 million 
        Americans speak Vietnamese at home, the fourth-most-common 
        language other than English.
            (5) Immigrants may find it difficult to assimilate into 
        their new communities as a result of the trauma of war. A 2018 
        study published by Rashmi Gangamma and Daran Shipman in the 
        Journal of Marital and Family Therapy noted that ``the 
        traumatic nature of (an immigrant's) forced displacement 
        flight, and resettlement can increase vulnerability to mental 
        distress.'' First generation immigrant children are especially 
        vulnerable to gang violence when their parents find it 
        difficult to navigate their new communities culturally and 
        politically.
            (6) In 2008, the United States and Vietnam signed a 
        bilateral repatriation agreement, hereinafter known as the 2008 
        Vietnam-U.S. Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).
            (7) According to Section 2, Article 2 of the 2008 Vietnam-
        U.S. MOU, ``Vietnamese citizens are not subject to return to 
        Vietnam under this Agreement if they arrived in the United 
        States before July 12, 1995, the date on which diplomatic 
        relations were re-established between the U.S. Government and 
        the Vietnamese Government. The U.S. Government and the 
        Vietnamese Government maintain their respective legal positions 
        relative to Vietnamese citizens who departed Vietnam for the 
        United States prior to that date.''.
            (8) Under President George Bush and President Barack Obama, 
        the United States recognized the 2008 Vietnam-U.S. MOU's 
        protections and refrained from deporting pre-1995 Vietnamese 
        refugees.
            (9) In November 2020, President Donald Trump's 
        Administration signed a new agreement with Vietnam which allows 
        for the deportation of Vietnamese refugees who arrived in the 
        United States prior to July 12, 1995. This includes lawful 
        permanent residents who have committed certain minor crimes and 
        others who came to the United States as children after the 
        Vietnam War.

SEC. 3. LIMITATION ON THE DETENTION AND REMOVAL OF NATIONALS OF 
              VIETNAM.

    (a) Limitation on Detention and Removal.--Except as provided in 
subsection (b), an alien may not be detained or removed from the United 
States on or after the date of enactment of this Act if the alien--
            (1) is a national of Vietnam;
            (2) entered the United States on or before July 12, 1995 
        and has continuously resided in the United States since such 
        entry; and
            (3) is subject to a final order of removal.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to an alien if--
            (1) the Secretary of Homeland Security determines, based on 
        credible facts, that the alien is directly responsible for 
        harming the security of the United States; or
            (2) the alien is subject to extradition.
    (c) Employment Authorization.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
shall authorize an alien described in subsection (a) to engage in 
employment in the United States and provide such alien with an 
``employment authorized'' endorsement or other appropriate work permit.

SEC. 4. NOTICE FOR CERTAIN VIETNAMESE NATIONALS WITH REMOVAL ORDERS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide notice of 
the provisions of this Act to each alien described in section 3(a).
    (b) Contents of Notice.--The notice described in subsection (a) 
shall include information explaining the requirements and instructions 
for filing a motion to reopen removal proceedings under section 
240(c)(7) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1229a(c)(7)).

SEC. 5. JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    (a) Review.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an 
individual or entity who has been harmed by a violation of this Act may 
file an action in an appropriate district court of the United States to 
seek declaratory or injunctive relief.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this Act may be construed to 
preclude an action filed pursuant to subsection (a) from proceeding as 
a class action (as such term is defined in section 1711 of title 28, 
United States Code).
                                 <all>
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 43 (Thursday, March 10, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1069-S1070]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           GOVERNMENT FUNDING

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, last night, the House of 
Representatives passed the strongest, boldest, and most significant 
government funding package we have seen in a very long time, bringing 
us one step closer to fully funding the government for the 2022 fiscal 
year.
  As we all know, funding the government is a basic responsibility of 
Congress, but rarely does this responsibility arrive at such a critical 
moment for our country and for the world. War has erupted in Europe, 
and Americans are looking to relief from rising costs, and this package 
is critical for facing these challenges.
  After weeks of hard work, I am pleased to report that this bipartisan 
funding package represents a robust and unapologetic investment in the 
American people: It will give our troops a raise, provide more money 
for schools and Head Start programs and Pell Grants, reauthorize the 
Violence Against Women Act, fund the President's Cancer Moonshot, and 
open the floodgates for funding the bipartisan infrastructure law. This 
funding bill is overflowing with very good things for our troops, for 
American jobs, for our families, and for America.
  Once this bill arrives at the Senate, Republicans must work with 
Democrats to pass the bill as soon as possible--hopefully, tonight. 
There is every reason in the world to believe that we can arrive at a 
path forward quickly.

[[Page S1070]]

  For one, the people of Ukraine need our immediate help, and this 
omnibus is the quickest and most direct way of getting them the help 
fast. At nearly $14 billion, Congress will approve more than double--
more than double--what the administration originally requested for 
Ukraine aid, and that is a huge accomplishment. We took the President's 
original request for Ukrainian aid, examined it and added to it.
  I can confidently say every last penny of this aid package will be 
much needed and well spent. It will provide food, medicine, shelter, 
and support for over 2 million refugees and resources for Ukraine's 
ruined economy. It will also inject billions into military assistance. 
It will enable weapons transfers like Javelins and Stingers. It will 
reassure and strengthen NATO and add teeth to our defenses against 
Russia's malicious cyber warfare.
  And to every corrupt Russian oligarch who has dined off Putin's 
regime for years, beware. This package will increase the government's 
tools for hunting you down and holding you accountable.
  The Ukrainian people are fighting for their lives and fighting for 
the survival of their young democracy. Congress has a moral obligation 
to stand behind them as they resist the evils of Vladimir Putin and his 
campaign of carnage.
  The 2022 government funding bill is one way we are keeping that 
promise, and for that reason alone, it should pass the Senate as 
quickly as possible.
  But on the homefront, as I already mentioned, there are lots of 
important things. This package increases investments across nearly 
every single domestic priority, very much needed.
  I am particularly thrilled to say that, after a decade of false 
starts, this package will finally reauthorize the Violence Against 
Women Act, which I originally helped write and pass when I was a 
Congressman back in 1994. Unfortunately, this very needed, important 
bill to protect those who are abused has languished in limbo for far 
too long. VAWA is one of the most important pieces of legislation of 
the past 30 years, and once it is reauthorized, it will once again 
provide lifesaving support for countless women who face sexual assault 
and domestic abuse. I thank Senators Feinstein, Durbin, Ernst, 
Murkowski, and all the cosponsors--bipartisan--for helping to bring 
this law back to life.
  Now, of course, nobody argues that this package is perfect. I am 
deeply disappointed--deeply disappointed--that the administration's 
request for more COVID funding failed to make it into the House bill, 
but we are going to keep fighting to make sure we get that money 
approved as soon as possible.
  COVID funding right now is all about being prepared. It will provide 
funding for vaccines and therapeutics and testing, which means it will 
be much easier to keep schools open, to keep businesses open, and to 
keep life closer to normal than it was during Delta and Omicron. So we 
will keep working on COVID relief. It is very much needed.
  Now, we are not over the finish line yet, but I want to thank 
appropriators from both sides of the aisle--bipartisan--for putting 
this package together, never an easy task. I especially thank Chairman 
Leahy for his leadership and his counsel over the course of this 
process, and I thank Ranking Member Shelby as well, and my House 
colleagues, too, for working in good faith to make this bill possible.
  It has not been easy to draft this truly robust package, but after 
years of needless chaos and uncertainty under Donald Trump, this year 
Congress has been able to work together on a bipartisan basis to fund 
the government in a serious way. Now the Senate must follow through in 
finishing the job by approving this bill quickly and sending it to the 
President's desk.

                          ____________________


[House Prints 117-5]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


                     BUSINESS MEETING ON THE JANUARY 6TH 
                               INVESTIGATION

=======================================================================

                                 MEETING

                                 OF THE

                          SELECT COMMITTEE TO
                      INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH
                             ATTACK ON THE
                         UNITED STATES CAPITOL

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               __________

                            OCTOBER 13, 2022

                               __________

                            Serial No. 117-5

                               __________

Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th 
                    Attack on the United States Capitol
                                     
[GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
                                    

        Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov

                               __________
                               
                    U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE                    
50-118 PDF                     WASHINGTON : 2022                     
          
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                
 
            SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON 
                           THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL

               Bennie G. Thompson, Mississippi, Chairman
                    Liz Cheney, Wyoming, Vice Chair
                        Zoe Lofgren, California
                       Adam B. Schiff, California
                        Pete Aguilar, California
                      Stephanie N. Murphy, Florida
                         Jamie Raskin, Maryland
                       Elaine G. Luria, Virginia
                        Adam Kinzinger, Illinois
                            
                            COMMITTEE STAFF

                    David B. Buckley, Staff Director
      Kristin L. Amerling, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
               Hope Goins, Senior Counsel to the Chairman
           Joseph B. Maher, Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair
             Timothy J. Heaphy, Chief Investigative Counsel
                      Jamie Fleet, Senior Advisor
               Timothy R. Mulvey, Communications Director
           Candyce Phoenix, Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor
 John F. Wood, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice 
                                 Chair

Katherine B. Abrams, Staff		Thomas E. Joscelyn, Senior Professional 	 
    Associate                             Staff Member
Temidayo Aganga-Williams, Senior	Rebecca L. Knooihuizen, Financial 	 
    Investigative Counsel		  Investigator
Alejandra Apecechea, Investigative	Casey E. Lucier, Investigative Counsel 
    Counsel				Damon M. Marx, Professional Staff Member	
Lisa A. Bianco, Director of Member 	Evan B. Mauldin, Chief Clerk
    Services and Security Manager	Yonatan L. Moskowitz, Senior Counsel
Jerome P. Bjelopera, Investigator	Hannah G. Muldavin, Deputy 
Bryan Bonner, Investigative Counsel	  Communications Director
Richard R. Bruno, Senior 		Jonathan D. Murray, Professional Staff
    Administrative Assistant		  Member
Marcus Childress, Investigative 	Jacob A. Nelson, Professional Staff Member
    Counsel				Elizabeth Obrand, Staff Associate
John Marcus Clark, Security		Raymond O'Mara, Director of External
    Director				  Affairs
Jacqueline N. Colvett, Digital		Elyes Ouechtati, Technology Partner 
    Director				Robin M. Peguero, Investigative Counsel	
Heather I. Connelly, Professional	Sandeep A. Prasanna, Investigative Counsel
    Staff Member			Barry Pump, Parliamentarian
Meghan E. Conroy, Investigator		Sean M. Quinn, Investigative Counsel
Heather L. Crowell, Printer 		Brittany M. J. Record, Senior Counsel
    Proofreader				Denver Riggleman, Senior Technical Advisor
William C. Danvers, Senior 		Joshua D. Roselman, Investigative Counsel
    Researcher				James N. Sasso, Senior Investigative Counsel
Soumyalatha Dayananda, Senior 		Grant H. Saunders, Professional Staff 
    Investigative Counsel		  Member
Stephen W. DeVine, Senior Counsel	Samantha O. Stiles, Chief Administrative 
Lawrence J. Eagleburger, 		  Officer
    Professional Staff Member		Sean P. Tonolli, Senior Investigative 
Kevin S. Elliker, Investigative           Counsel
    Counsel				David A. Weinberg, Senior Professional Staff 
Margaret E. Emamzadeh, Staff 		  Member
    Associate				Amanda S. Wick, Senior Investigative 
Sadallah A. Farah, Professional 	  Counsel
    Staff Member			Darrin L. Williams, Jr., Staff Assistant
Daniel A. George, Senior 		Zachary S. Wood, Clerk
    Investigative Counsel
Jacob H. Glick, Investigative 
    Counsel
Aaron S. Greene, Clerk
Marc S. Harris, Senior 
    Investigative Counsel
Alice K. Hayes, Clerk
Quincy T. Henderson, Staff 
    Assistant
Jenna Hopkins, Professional Staff 
    Member
Camisha L. Johnson, Professional 
    Staff Member                                                              
                                    
                         
                       
                       CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS

                             Rawaa Alobaidi
                             Melinda Arons
                              Steve Baker
                            Elizabeth Bisbee
                              David Canady
                             John Coughlin
                             Aaron Dietzen
                              Gina Ferrise
                           Angel Goldsborough
                             James Goldston
                              Polly Grube
                          L. Christine Healey
                             Danny Holladay
                              Percy Howard
                              Dean Jackson
                           Stephanie J. Jones
                              Hyatt Mamoun
                               Mary Marsh
                               Todd Mason
                              Ryan Mayers
                              Jeff McBride
                               Fred Muram
                             Alex Newhouse
                              John Norton
                             Orlando Pinder
                               Owen Pratt
                              Dan Pryzgoda
                              Brian Sasser
                            William Scherer
                              Driss Sekkat
                              Chris Stuart
                            Preston Sullivan
                              Brian Young

                           Innovative Driven
                            
                            C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page

                   Statements of Members of Congress

The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee 
  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
  Capitol........................................................     1
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to 
  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol     3
The Honorable Zoe Lofgren, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California............................................     5
The Honorable Adam Kinzinger, a Representative in Congress From 
  the State of Illinois..........................................     9
The Honorable Elaine Luria, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Virginia..............................................    14
The Honorable Stephanie Murphy, a Representative in Congress From 
  the State of Florida...........................................    17
The Honorable Adam Schiff, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California............................................    19
The Honorable Pete Aguilar, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of California............................................    24
The Honorable Jamie Raskin, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Maryland..............................................    27

                           Committee Business

Committee Resolution 1...........................................    35

 
           BUSINESS MEETING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

                              ----------                              


                       Thursday, October 13, 2022

                     U.S. House of Representatives,
 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
                                 the United States Capitol,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 1:01 p.m., in 
room 390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson 
[Chairman of the Committee] presiding.
    Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger.
    Chairman Thompson. The Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in 
order.
    Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the 
Committee in recess at any point.
    Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 10, the 
Chair announces the Committee's approval to release the 
deposition material presented during today's meeting.
    Good afternoon, and may God bless the United States of 
America.
    Four months ago, this Committee started to present our 
findings to you, the American people. From the beginning, we 
understood that some people watching those proceedings would 
wrongly assume that the Committee's investigation was a 
partisan exercise. That is why I asked those who were skeptical 
of our work simply to listen--to listen to the evidence, to 
hear the testimony with an open mind, and to let the facts 
speak for themselves before reaching any judgment.
    Over the course of these hearings, the evidence has proven 
that there was a multi-part plan led by former President Donald 
Trump to overturn the 2020 election.
    Donald Trump lost his bid for reelection. As shown from the 
testimony of some of the President's closest allies and 
advisers, Donald Trump knew he lost.
    Despite this knowledge, Donald Trump went to court to 
contest the 2020 election, and he lost in court. The electoral 
college met and declared Joe Biden the winner. Yet, Donald 
Trump continued to pull out all the stops in his attempt to 
stay in power.
    What Donald Trump proceeded to do after the 2020 election 
is something no President has done before in our country. In a 
staggering betrayal of his oath, Donald Trump attempted a plan 
that led to an attack on a pillar of our democracy. It is still 
hard to believe. But the facts and testimony are clear, 
consistent, and undisputed.
    How do we know this? How have we been able to present such 
a clear picture of what took place? Because of the testimony we 
have heard and that we have now presented to you through these 
proceedings. Because of the documentary evidence we have 
gathered and also made available directly to you, the American 
people.
    When you look back at what has come out through this 
Committee's work, the most striking fact is that all this 
evidence comes almost entirely from Republicans. The evidence 
that has emerged did not come from Democrats or opponents of 
Donald Trump. Instead, look at who has written and testified 
and produced evidence.
    Who has that been?
    Aides who have worked loyally for Donald Trump for years.
    Republican State officials and legislators.
    Republican electors.
    The chairwoman of the Republican National Committee.
    Political professionals who worked at the highest levels of 
the Trump Campaign.
    Trump appointees who served in the most senior positions in 
the Justice Department.
    President Trump's staff and closest advisers in the White 
House.
    Members of President Trump's family.
    His own White House counsel.
    I have served in Congress a long time. I can tell you, it 
is tough for any congressional investigation to obtain evidence 
like what we have received, least of all such a detailed view 
into a President's inner circle.
    I want to be clear: Not all these witnesses were thrilled 
to talk to us. Some put up quite a fight. But ultimately, the 
vast majority cooperated with our investigation. What we have 
shown you over the last 4 months has been centered on the 
evidence--evidence that has come overwhelmingly from Republican 
witnesses.
    So I say to you again, as I did in June, this investigation 
is not about politics. It is not about party. It is about the 
facts, plain and simple. It is about making sure our Government 
functions under the rule of law as our Constitution demands.
    Today, as in previous proceedings, my colleagues and I will 
present new evidence. That includes new testimony from 
additional Republicans who served in the Trump administration; 
never-before-seen footage of congressional leaders on January 
6th working to coordinate the response to violence and ensure 
the people's business went forward; new materials produced to 
the Committee by the Secret Service; details about the ongoing 
threat to American democracy.
    Today's proceeding will also be grounded in the facts. But 
it won't look exactly like all our other hearings. We will also 
take a step back and look at the evidence in a broader context, 
providing a summary of key facts we have uncovered, facts 
relevant to former President Trump's state of mind, about his 
motivation, and about his intent.
    What did President Trump know? What was he told? What was 
his personal and substantial role in the multi-part plan to 
overturn the election?
    For those of you who have watched our prior hearings, some 
of this evidence will look familiar. For those of you tuning in 
for the first time, we will summarize some of the most 
important facts, and we urge you to go on-line and watch our 
hearing in full.
    There is one more difference about today. Pursuant to the 
notice circulated prior to today's proceedings, we are convened 
today not as a hearing but as a formal Committee business 
meeting, so that in addition to presenting evidence, we can 
potentially hold a Committee vote on further investigative 
action based upon that evidence.
    Before we get to that evidence, I would recognize our 
distinguished Vice Chair, Ms. Cheney of Wyoming, for any 
opening statement she would care to offer.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
    Much has happened since our last public hearing on July 
21st. As the Chairman mentioned, we have received new and 
voluminous documentation from the Secret Service, which we 
continue to analyze. We have received new witness testimony, 
including about efforts to obstruct our investigation and 
conceal key facts. According to public reporting, the 
Department of Justice has been very active in pursuing many of 
the issues identified in our prior hearings.
    Our Committee may ultimately decide to make a series of 
criminal referrals to the Department of Justice. But we 
recognize that our role is not to make decisions regarding 
prosecution. The Preamble to our Constitution recites among its 
purposes to, ``establish justice,'' and our Nation's judiciary 
and our U.S. Department of Justice have that responsibility.
    A key element of this Committee's responsibility is to 
propose reforms to prevent January 6th from ever happening 
again. We have already proposed, and the House has now passed, 
a bill to amend the Electoral Count Act, to help ensure that no 
other future plots to overturn an election can succeed. We will 
make further specific recommendations in our final report based 
in part on the evidence you will hear today.
    Our hearings last summer began with an outline of President 
Trump's multi-part plan to overturn the 2020 Presidential 
election. We then proceeded to demonstrate each of these 
elements in detail with more than 20 hours of evidence. Today 
we will see new evidence, but as the Chairman said, we will 
also synthesize evidence you have seen before.
    The vast weight of evidence presented so far has shown us 
that the central cause of January 6th was one man, Donald 
Trump, who many others followed. None of this would have 
happened without him. He was personally and substantially 
involved in all of it.
    Exactly how did one man cause all of this? Today we will 
focus on President Trump's state of mind, his intent, his 
motivations, and how he spurred others to do his bidding, and 
how another January 6th could happen again if we do not take 
necessary action to prevent it.
    As you view our evidence today, I would suggest a focus on 
the following points.
    First, as you will see, President Trump had a premeditated 
plan to declare that the election was fraudulent and stolen 
before election day, before he knew the election results. He 
made his stolen election claims on election night, against the 
advice of his campaign, without any evidence in hand.
    Then, over the next 2 months, he sought to find those who 
would help him invent and spread lies about the widespread 
fraud. Many of those who stepped forward to help, including 
Rudy Giuliani, knew they never had real evidence sufficient to 
change the election results. On the evening of January 5th, 
they admitted they were still trying to find that phantom 
evidence.
    Of course, as a result of making intentionally false claims 
of election fraud, Mr. Giuliani's license to practice law has 
now been suspended.
    Second, please recognize that President Donald Trump was in 
a unique position, better informed about the absence of 
widespread election fraud than almost any other American. 
President Trump's own campaign experts told him that there was 
no evidence to support his claims. His own Justice Department 
appointees investigated the election fraud claims and told him 
point-blank they were false.
    In mid-December 2020, President Trump's senior advisers 
told him the time had come to concede the election. Donald 
Trump knew the courts had ruled against him. He had all of this 
information, but still he made the conscious choice to claim, 
fraudulently, that the election was stolen, to pressure State 
officials to change election results, to manufacture fake 
electoral slates, to attempt to corrupt our Department of 
Justice, to summon tens of thousands of supporters to 
Washington. Knowing that they were angry, knowing that some of 
them were armed, he sent them to the Capitol.
    Then, as the riot was underway, he incited his supporters 
to further violence by publicly condemning his Vice President. 
Then he refused for hours to disband his rioting supporters and 
instruct them to leave the Capitol, even when he was begged 
repeatedly to do so.
    None of this is normal or acceptable or lawful in our 
Republic.
    Third, please consider today who had a hand in defeating 
President Trump's efforts to overturn the election: Vice 
President Pence. Bill Barr, Jeff Rosen, and others at the 
Department of Justice. State Republican officials. White House 
staff who blocked proposals to mobilize the military to seize 
voting machines and run new elections. Our Capitol Police, 
aided by the Metropolitan Police. Other Federal law enforcement 
and our National Guard, who arrived later in the afternoon. All 
of these people had a hand in stopping Donald Trump.
    This leads us to a key question. Why would Americans assume 
that our Constitution and our institutions in our Republic are 
invulnerable to another attack? Why would we assume that those 
institutions will not falter next time?
    A key lesson of this investigation is this: Our 
institutions only hold when men and women of good faith make 
them hold, regardless of the political cost.
    We have no guarantee that these men and women will be in 
place next time. Any future President inclined to attempt what 
Donald Trump did in 2020 has now learned not to install people 
who could stand in the way.
    Also, please consider this: The rulings of our courts are 
respected and obeyed because we as citizens pledge to accept 
and honor them. Most importantly, our President, who has a 
constitutional obligation to faithfully execute the laws, 
swears to accept them.
    What happens when the President disregards the courts' 
rulings as illegitimate, when he disregards the rule of law? 
That, my fellow citizens, breaks our Republic.
    Finally, as you view the evidence today, also consider 
this: President Trump knew from unassailable sources that his 
election fraud claims were false. He admitted he had lost the 
election. He took actions consistent with that belief.
    Claims that President Trump actually thought the election 
was stolen are not supported by fact and are not a defense. 
There is no defense that Donald Trump was duped or irrational. 
No President can defy the rule of law and act this way in a 
constitutional republic, period.
    Mr. Chairman, our Nation's Federal judges are sworn to do 
impartial justice, to preserve our Constitution, and preserve 
our Union. Dozens of these judges have been addressing January 
6th cases, and many have given us plain, unmistakable warnings 
about the direction of our Republic.
    Let me read from one judge's statement given at a recent 
sentencing hearing. ``High-ranking Members of Congress and 
State officials who know perfectly well the claim of fraud was 
and is untrue and that the election was legitimate are so 
afraid of losing their power, they won't say so.
    ``It has to be crystal clear, that it is not patriotism, it 
is not standing up for America to stand up for one man who 
knows full well that he lost instead of the Constitution he was 
trying to subvert.''
    Mr. Chairman, the violence and lawlessness of January 6th 
was unjustifiable, but our Nation cannot only punish the foot 
soldiers who stormed our Capitol. Those who planned to overturn 
our election and brought us to the point of violence must also 
be accountable. With every effort to excuse or justify the 
conduct of the former President, we chip away at the foundation 
of our Republic. Indefensible conduct is defended. Inexcusable 
conduct is excused. Without accountability, it all becomes 
normal, and it will recur.
    So as we watch the evidence today, please consider where 
our Nation is in its history. Consider whether we can survive 
for another 246 years.
    Most people in most places on Earth have not been free. 
America is an exception, and America continues only because we 
bind ourselves to our Founders' principles, to our 
Constitution. We recognize that some principles must be beyond 
politics, inviolate, and more important than any single 
American who has ever lived.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from California, Ms. Lofgren, for an opening statement.
    Ms. Lofgren. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    We begin this meeting by returning to election night, 
November 3, 2020. As the Chairman noted, we have previously 
presented testimony about how the election results were 
expected to come in that night. In certain States, ballots cast 
by mail before election day would be counted only after the 
polls closed that evening. That meant that election results 
would not be known for some time.
    Although President Trump's campaign manager, Bill Stepien, 
House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, and Jared Kushner had 
advised Donald Trump to encourage mail-in voting by 
Republicans, President Trump did not do so.

    Mr. Kushner. Yeah, I just remember generally, you know, you had 
people arguing that we had a very, very robust get-out-the-vote effort 
and that, you know, mail-in ballots could be a good thing for us if we 
looked at it correctly.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Stepien. There was one meeting that was had in particular. I 
invited Kevin McCarthy to join the meeting, he being of like mind on 
the issue with me, in which we made our case for why we believed mail-
in balloting--mail-in voting--not to be a bad thing for his campaign. 
But, you know, the President's mind was made up.

    Ms. Lofgren. So it was expected before the election that 
the initial counts in some States--in other words, those votes 
cast on election day--would be more heavily Republican, and 
this would create the false perception of a lead for President 
Trump, a so-called ``red mirage,'' but as the results of the 
absentee ballots were later counted, there could be trends 
toward Vice President Biden, as those mail-in ballots were 
counted.
    Now, on election night, Donald Trump's advisers 
specifically told him he didn't have a factual basis to declare 
victory. He should wait for the remaining ballots to be 
counted.
    Here is campaign manager Bill Stepien.

    Mr. Stepien. It was far too early to be making any calls like that. 
Ballots were still being counted. Ballots were still going to be 
counted for days. And it was far too early to be making any 
proclamation like that.
    My belief, my recommendation, was to say that votes were still 
being counted, it is too early to tell, too early to call the race.

    Ms. Lofgren. But President Trump did declare victory in the 
late hours of election night. Not only did he declare victory, 
he also called for the ongoing count of votes to just stop.
    Stopping the count would have violated both Federal and 
State laws and also disenfranchised millions of voters who 
lawfully cast their vote. He called for that action anyway.
    Here is what he said.

    President Trump. This is a fraud on the American public. This is an 
embarrassment to our country. We were getting ready to win this 
election. Frankly, we did win this election. We did win this election . 
. . .
    We want all voting to stop.

    Ms. Lofgren. We now know more about President Trump's 
intentions for election night. The evidence shows that his 
false victory speech was planned well in advance, before any 
votes had been counted. It was a premeditated plan by the 
President to declare victory no matter what the actual result 
was. He made a plan to stay in office before election day.
    Now, the Vice President's staff was concerned with what 
Donald Trump might do on election night. They took steps to 
ensure that Mr. Pence would not echo a false victory 
announcement from President Trump.
    Here is what the Vice President's counsel, Greg Jacob, told 
us about his preparations with the Vice President's chief of 
staff, Marc Short.

    Mr. Jacob. Marc had indicated to me that there was a possibility 
that there would be a declaration of victory within the White House 
that some might push for--and this is prior to the election results 
being known--and that he was trying to figure out a way of avoiding the 
Vice President sort-of being thrust into a position of needing to opine 
on that when he might not have sufficient information to do so.

    Ms. Lofgren. Now, following this conversation, Mr. Jacob 
drafted a memo to Mr. Short which the Select Committee got from 
the National Archives. The memo was sent on November 3rd, 
election day, and advised `` . . . it is essential that the 
Vice President not be perceived by the public as having decided 
questions concerning disputed electoral votes prior to the full 
development of all relevant facts.''
    A few days before the election, Mr. Trump also consulted 
with one of his outside advisers, activist Tom Fitton, about 
the strategy for election night. The Select Committee got this 
pre-prepared statement from the National Archives. As you can 
see, the draft statement, which was sent on October 31st, 
declares, ``We had an election today--and I won.''
    The Fitton memo specifically indicates a plan that only the 
votes ``counted by the election day deadline''--and there is no 
election day deadline--would matter. Everyone knew that ballot 
counting would lawfully continue past election day. Claiming 
that the counting on election night must stop before millions 
of votes were counted was, as we now know, a key part of 
President Trump's premeditated plan.
    On election day, just after 5 p.m., Mr. Fitton indicated he 
had spoken with the President about the statement. ``Sending 
along again. Just talked to him about the draft below . . . ''. 
Again, this plan to declare victory was in place before any of 
the results had been determined.
    In the course of our investigation, we also interviewed 
Brad Parscale, President Trump's former campaign manager. He 
told us he understood that President Trump planned as early as 
July that he would say he won the election even if he lost.
    Just a few days before the election, Steve Bannon, a former 
Trump chief White House strategist and outside adviser to 
President Trump, spoke to a group of his associates from China 
and said this.

    Mr. Bannon. And what Trump's gonna do is just declare victory, 
right? He's gonna declare victory. But that doesn't mean he's the 
winner. He's just going to say he's the winner.
    The Democrats--more of our people vote early that count. Theirs 
vote in mail. And so they're going to have a natural disadvantage, and 
Trump's going to take advantage of it. That's our strategy. He's gonna 
declare himself the winner. So when you wake up Wednesday morning, it's 
going to be a firestorm.
    Also--also, if Trump--if Trump is losing by 10 or 11 o'clock at 
night, it's going to be even crazier. No, because he's going to sit 
right there and say, ``They stole it. I'm directing the Attorney 
General to shut down all ballot places in all 50 States.'' It's going 
to be--no, he's not going out easy. If Trump--if Biden's winning, Trump 
is going to do some crazy shit.

    Ms. Lofgren. As you know, Mr. Bannon refused to testify in 
our investigation. He has been convicted of criminal contempt 
of Congress, and he is awaiting sentencing. But the evidence 
indicates that Mr. Bannon had advance knowledge of Mr. Trump's 
intent to declare victory falsely on election night, but also 
that Mr. Bannon knew about Mr. Trump's planning for January 
6th.
    Here is what Bannon said on January 5th.

    Mr. Bannon. All hell is going to break loose tomorrow.
    It's all converging, and now we're on, as they say, the point of 
attack, right, the point of attack tomorrow.
    I'll tell you this. It's not going to happen like you think it's 
going to happen, okay? It's going to be quite extraordinarily 
different. And all I can say is strap in. You have made this happen, 
and tomorrow it's game day. So strap in. Let's get ready.

    Ms. Lofgren. Another close associate of Donald Trump 
apparently knew of Mr. Trump's intentions as well.
    Now, Roger Stone is a political operative with a reputation 
for dirty tricks. In November 2019, he was convicted of lying 
to Congress and other crimes and sentenced to more than 3 years 
in prison.
    He is also a longtime adviser to President Trump and was in 
communication with President Trump throughout 2020. Mr. Trump 
pardoned Roger Stone on December 23, 2020.
    Now, recently, the Select Committee got footage of Mr. 
Stone before and after the election from Danish filmmaker 
Christoffer Guldbrandsen, pursuant to a subpoena. Right before 
the election, here is Roger Stone talking about what President 
Trump would do after the election.

    Mr. Stone. Let's just hope we're celebrating. I suspect it'll be--I 
really do suspect it will still be up in the air. When that happens the 
key thing to do is to claim victory. Possession is nine-tenths of the 
law. No, we won. Fuck you. Sorry. Over. We won. You're wrong. Fuck you.
    I said, fuck the voting. Let's get right to the violence.
    Voice. That's what I am fucking saying. There is no point.
    Mr. Stone. We will have to start smashing pumpkins, if you know 
what I mean.
    Voice. Oh, yeah.

    Ms. Lofgren. The Select Committee called Mr. Stone as a 
witness, but he invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-
incrimination.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Do you believe the violence on January 6th was 
justified?
    Mr. Stone. On the advice of counsel, I respectfully decline to 
answer your question on the basis of the Fifth Amendment.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And, Mr. Stone, did you have any role in 
planning for the violence on January 6th?
    Mr. Stone. Once again, I will assert my Fifth Amendment right to 
decline to answer your question.

    Ms. Lofgren. Although we don't yet have all the relevant 
records of Roger Stone's communications, even Stone's own 
social media posts acknowledge that he spoke with Donald Trump 
on December 27th as preparations for January 6th were underway.
    In this post, you can see how Roger Stone talked about his 
conversations with President Trump. He wrote, ``I also told the 
President exactly how he can appoint a Special Counsel with 
full subpoena power to ensure those who are attempting to steal 
the 2020 election through voter fraud are charged and convicted 
and to ensure Donald Trump continues as our President.''
    As we know by now, the idea for a Special Counsel was not 
just an idle suggestion. It was something President Trump had 
actually tried to do earlier that month.
    We know that Roger Stone was at the Willard Hotel on 
January 5th and 6th, and we know from other witness testimony 
that President Trump asked his chief of staff, Mark Meadows, to 
speak with Roger Stone and General Michael Flynn that night.
    In addition to his connection to President Trump, Roger 
Stone maintained extensive direct connections to two groups 
responsible for violently attacking the Capitol, the Oath 
Keepers and the Proud Boys. Individuals from both of these 
organizations have been charged with the crime of seditious 
conspiracy.
    Now, what is seditious conspiracy? It is a conspiracy to 
use violent force against the United States, to oppose the 
lawful authority of the United States.
    Multiple associates of Roger Stone, from both the Oath 
Keepers and the Proud Boys, have been charged with this crime. 
Close associates of Roger Stone, including Joshua James, have 
pled guilty to this crime.
    We know that at least seven Oath Keepers--who have been 
criminally charged--provided personal security for Roger Stone 
or were seen with him on January 6th or in the weeks leading up 
to January 6th.
    For example, Joshua James, the leader of the Alabama Oath 
Keepers, provided security for Roger Stone and was with him on 
January 5th. This is a picture of the two together on January 
5th.
    James entered the Capitol on January 6th. He assaulted a 
police officer. Earlier this year, he pled guilty to seditious 
conspiracy and obstruction of Congress.
    Another example is the married couple Kelly and Connie 
Meggs. Now, Kelly Meggs was the leader of the Florida chapter 
of the Oath Keepers. Both he and his wife provided security for 
Roger Stone, and both are charged with leading a military-style 
stack attack of Oath Keepers attacking the Capitol on January 
6th.
    Perhaps even more disturbing is Roger Stone's close 
association with Enrique Tarrio, the national chairman of the 
Proud Boys. Roger Stone's connection with Enrique Tarrio and 
the Proud Boys is well-documented by video evidence, with phone 
records the Select Committee has obtained. Tarrio, along with 
other Proud Boys, has been charged with multiple crimes 
concerning the attack on January 6th, including seditious 
conspiracy.
    During the attack, Tarrio sent a message to other Proud 
Boys claiming, ``We did that!'' He also visited the White House 
on December 12th.
    Later that day, he posted a disturbing video claiming 
credit for the attack. This video, posted on January 6th, was 
apparently created prior to the attack.
    This Big Lie, President Trump's effort to convince 
Americans that he had won the 2020 election, began before the 
election results even came in. It was intentional. It was 
premeditated. It was not based on election results or any 
evidence of actual fraud affecting the results or any actual 
problems with voting machines.
    It was a plan concocted in advance to convince his 
supporters that he won. The people who seemingly knew about 
that plan in advance would ultimately play a significant role 
in the events of January 6th.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. 
Kinzinger, for an opening statement.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Very shortly after the election, the Trump campaign 
recognized that they had likely lost the election, and they 
informed Donald Trump of that fact.
    Even before the networks called the race for President 
Biden on November 7th, his chances of pulling out a victory 
were virtually nonexistent, and President Trump knew it.

    Mr. George. Do you know if anybody ever told the President that he 
had lost and that there wasn't a chance of him winning?
    Mr. Jason Miller. The--I know that the President, when the networks 
called--it--of course, he was informed about the network--decision--
that--afternoon, at some point, myself and a handful of other folks 
went over and sat down with the President and communicated that the 
odds of us prevailing in legal challenges were very small.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Lofgren. You know, after the election, as of November 7th, in 
your judgment, what were the chances of President Trump winning the 
election?
    Mr. Stirewalt. After that point?
    Ms. Lofgren. Yes.
    Mr. Stirewalt. None.

    Mr. Kinzinger. At times, President Trump acknowledged the 
reality of his loss. Although he publicly claimed that he had 
won the election, privately he admitted that Joe Biden would 
take over as President.
    Here are a few examples of that.

    General Milley. So we're in the Oval and there's a discussion going 
on. And the President says--I think it's--it could've been Pompeo. But 
he says words to the effect of, ``Yes, we lost, we need to let that 
issue go to the next guy,'' meaning President Biden.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Farah. I remember, maybe a week after the election was called, 
I popped into the Oval just to like give the President the headlines 
and see how he was doing, and he was looking at the TV, and he said, 
``Can you believe I lost to this F'ing guy?''
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Hutchinson. So Mark raised it with me on the 18th. And so 
following that conversation, we're in the motorcade ride driving back 
to the White House, and I had said like, ``Does the President really 
think that he lost?'' And he said, ``You know, a lot of times he'll 
tell me that he lost but he wants to keep fighting, and he thinks that 
there might be enough to overturn the election. But, you know, he 
pretty much has acknowledged that he--that he's lost.''

    Mr. Kinzinger. Knowing that he had lost and that he had 
only weeks left in office, President Trump rushed to complete 
his unfinished business.
    One key example is this: President Trump issued an order 
for large-scale U.S. troop withdrawals. He disregarded concerns 
about the consequences for fragile governments on the front 
lines of the fight against ISIS and al-Qaeda terrorists.
    Knowing he was leaving office, he acted immediately and 
signed this order on November 11th, which would have required 
the immediate withdrawal of troops from Somalia and 
Afghanistan, all to be complete before the Biden inauguration 
on January 20th.
    As you watch these clips, recall that General Keith Kellogg 
was the National Security Advisor to the Vice President and had 
served as chief of staff to the National Security Council for 
President Trump, and General Milley was the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon.

    Mr. Wood. Are you familiar with a memo that the President 
reportedly signed on November 11, 2020, ordering that troops be 
withdrawn from Afghanistan and Somalia?
    Mr. Kellogg. Yes.
                                 ______
                                 
    General Milley. So I think you might have seen some things where 
there's a memo or something from Johnny McEntee to Douglas Macgregor. 
It says, ``Here's your task: To get U.S. forces out of--out of Somalia, 
get U.S. forces out of Afghanistan.''
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Dayananda. When you first interviewed and met Colonel Douglas 
Macgregor, is it fair to say you discussed this decision of withdrawing 
from Somalia and Afghanistan? Correct?
    Mr. McEntee. Yes, I'm sure that was part of it, yes.
    Ms. Dayananda. And that was--the position that he was taking over 
there was senior adviser to the Secretary of Defense. Is that correct?
    Mr. McEntee. Yes.
    Ms. Dayananda. So on that same day, just so I'm clear, he responded 
back to you that they, meaning DOD leadership, was not going to do--
take any of those steps without an order?
    Mr. McEntee. Without a directive, yes.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Macgregor. I explained in language that should be in the order, 
while I was in the meeting with McEntee, and this was my answer to him. 
I said, if you want this to happen, or if the President wants this to 
happen, he's got to write an order.
    Mr. Marx. So you never wrote this down in any capacity?
    Mr. Macgregor. Well, I sketched on a piece of paper for him some 
key statements. You know, ``The President directs.'' You know, this 
is--what's the right word? Boilerplate language?
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Dayananda. Who was in his office that drafted the order?
    Mr. McEntee. It was myself and one of my assistants.
                                 ______
                                 
    General Milley. McEntee duly types it up, brings it in to the 
President, the President signs it, and boom, it's over--faxed over or 
emailed, scanned over--and Kash Patel delivers it to me.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Dayananda. Was it by autopen, or was it the President himself 
signing it?
    Mr. McEntee. It was the President.
    Ms. Dayananda. And who obtained that signature?
    Mr. McEntee. I did.
                                 ______
                                 
    General Milley. It is odd. It is not standard. It is potentially 
dangerous. I personally thought it was militarily not feasible nor 
wise.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Kellogg. And I proceeded to tell the PPO and proceeded to tell 
Macgregor that if I ever saw anything like that, I would do something 
physical, because I thought what was done was a tremendous disservice 
to the Nation. And by the way, it was--that--it was a very contested 
issue. There were people who did not agree with getting out of 
Afghanistan. I appreciate their concerns.
    An immediate departure that that memo said would have been 
catastrophic. It's the same thing what President Biden went through. It 
would have been a debacle.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Keep in mind, the order was for an immediate 
withdrawal. It would have been catastrophic. Yet, President 
Trump signed the order. These are the highly consequential 
actions of a President who knows his term will shortly end.
    At the same time that President Trump was acknowledging 
privately that he had lost the election, he was hearing that 
there was no evidence of fraud or irregularities sufficient to 
change the outcome.

    Mr. Cannon. I remember a call with Mr. Meadows where Mr. Meadows 
was asking me what I was finding and if I was finding anything. And I 
remember sharing with him that we weren't finding anything that would 
be sufficient to change the results in any of the key States.
    Mr. Harris. When was that conversation?
    Mr. Cannon. Probably in November, mid-to-late November. I think it 
was before my child was born.
    Mr. Harris. And what was Mr. Meadows's reaction to that 
information?
    Mr. Cannon. I believe the words he used were, ``So there's no 
`there' there?''
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Stepien. It would be our job to track it down and come up dry 
because the allegation didn't prove to be true. And we'd have to relay 
the news that, yes, that someone told you about those votes or that 
fraud or nothing came of it. It would be our job as the truth-telling 
squad. And it's not a fun job to be much--it's an easier job to be 
telling the President about wild allegations. It's a harder job to be 
telling him on the back end that, yes, that's--that wasn't true.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Morgan. What was generally discussed on that topic was whether 
the fraud, maladministration, abuse or irregularities, if aggregated 
and read most favorably to the campaign, would that be outcome-
determinative. I think everyone's assessment in the room, at least 
amongst the staff, Marc Short, myself, and Greg Jacob, was that it was 
not sufficient to be outcome-determinative.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Look, it is the right of any candidate to 
litigate genuine election disputes. Nobody argues that. But 
President Trump's litigation was completely unsuccessful.
    In our past hearings, we told you that the Committee had 
identified a total of 62 election lawsuits filed by the Trump 
Campaign and its allies between November 4th and January 6th of 
2021. Those cases resulted in 61 losses and only a single 
victory, which did not affect the outcome for any candidate.
    The claims were not supported by any sufficient evidence of 
fraud or irregularities. In fact, they were baseless, as judges 
repeatedly recognized. In none of these 62 cases was President 
Trump able to establish any viable claims of election fraud 
sufficient to overturn the results of the election.
    In those hearings, we shared with you the words used by 
judges around the country in rejecting the Trump Campaign's 
claims. It is strong language, criticizing the lack of 
evidentiary support for the claims of election fraud in those 
lawsuits. For example, a Federal appeals court in Pennsylvania 
wrote, ``Charges require specific allegations and proof. We 
have neither here.''
    A Federal judge in Wisconsin wrote, ``The Court has allowed 
the former President the chance to make his case, and he has 
lost on the merits.''
    Another judge, in Michigan, called the claims ``nothing but 
speculation and conjecture that votes for President Trump were 
either destroyed, discarded, or switched to votes for Vice 
President Biden.''
    A Federal judge in Michigan sanctioned nine attorneys, 
including Sidney Powell, for making frivolous allegations in an 
election fraud case, describing the case as ``a historic and 
profound abuse of the judicial process.''
    Recently, a group of distinguished Republican election 
lawyers, former judges, and elected officials issued a report 
confirming the findings of the courts.
    In their report, entitled ``Lost, Not Stolen,'' these 
prominent Republicans analyzed each election challenge and 
concluded this: ``Donald Trump and his supporters failed to 
present evidence of fraud or inaccurate results significant 
enough to invalidate the results of the 2020 Presidential 
election.''
    On December 11th, Trump's allies lost a lawsuit in the U.S. 
Supreme Court that he regarded as his last chance at success in 
the courts. A newly obtained Secret Service message from that 
day shows how angry President Trump was about the outcome: 
``Just FYI, POTUS is pissed--breaking news--Supreme Court 
denied his lawsuit. He is livid now.''
    Cassidy Hutchinson, an aide to Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, 
was present for that conversation and described it in this way.

    Ms. Hutchinson. This is the day that the Supreme Court had rejected 
that case. Mr. Meadows and I were in the White House residence at a 
Christmas reception. And as we were walking back from the Christmas 
reception that evening, the President was walking out of the Oval 
Office, so we crossed paths in the Rose Garden colonnade. The President 
was fired up about the Supreme Court decision.
    And so, you know, I was standing next to Meadows, Mr. Meadows, but 
I stepped back, so I was probably 2, 3 feet catty-corner, from a 
diagonal from him. You know, the President is just raging about the 
decision and how it's wrong and why didn't we make more calls, and, you 
know, just his typical anger, outburst at this decision.
    And the President said he had--I had put the quote--okay. So he had 
said something to the effect of, ``I don't want people to know we lost, 
Mark. This is embarrassing. Figure it out. We need to figure it out. I 
don't want people to know that we lost.''

    Mr. Kinzinger. Our country is a country of laws where every 
person, including the President, must follow the law and 
respect the judgment of our courts. President Trump's closest 
advisers held that view both then and now.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Well, do you believe the President should abide 
by the rulings of the courts?
    Secretary of State Pompeo. Oh, yes, we should all comply with the 
law at all times to the best of our ability, every one of us.
    Vice Chair Cheney. So once the courts had ruled and the electoral 
college had met, the election was over, in your view?
    Secretary of State Pompeo. Yes. I think I--I think I've said 
previously that when the Vice President made the certification and the 
litigation was complete, it was complete.
    Vice Chair Cheney. When the electoral college met on the 14th?
    Secretary of State Pompeo. Yes, as of December 14th. Is that right? 
I think that's the right date, yes.
                                 ______
                                 
    Vice Chair Cheney. I assume, Pat, that you would agree the 
President is obligated to abide by the rulings of the courts?
    Mr. Cipollone. Of course.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And I assume you also would----
    Mr. Cipollone. Everybody is obligated to abide by rulings of 
courts.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And I assume you also would agree the President 
has a particular obligation to take care that the laws be faithfully 
executed?
    Mr. Cipollone. That is one of the President's obligations, correct.
                                 ______
                                 
    Vice Chair Cheney. Ivanka, do you believe the President's obligated 
to abide by the rulings of the courts?
    Ms. Trump. I do.

    Mr. Kinzinger. By mid-December 2020, President Trump's 
senior staff were attempting to persuade him to concede the 
election outcome.

    Mr. Cipollone. But if your question is did I believe he should 
concede the election at a point in time, yes, I did.
                                 ______
                                 
    Attorney General Barr. December 14th was the day that the States 
certified their votes and sent them to Congress. And in my view, that 
was the end of the matter. I didn't see--you know, I thought that this 
would lead inexorably to a new administration.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Deere. I told him that my personal viewpoint was that the 
electoral college had met, which is the system that our country is set 
under to elect a President and Vice President, and I believed at that 
point that the means for him to pursue litigation was probably closed.
    Mr. Wood. And do you recall what his response, if any, was?
    Mr. Deere. He disagreed.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Secretary of Labor Gene Scalia, the son of 
late Justice Scalia, visited President Trump in mid-December 
and explained the situation clearly.

    Secretary of Labor Scalia. And so I had put a call in to the 
President--I might have called on the 13th, we spoke, I believe, on the 
14th--in which I conveyed to him that I thought that it was time for 
him to acknowledge that President Biden had prevailed in the election.
    But I communicated to the President that when that legal process is 
exhausted and when the electors have voted, that that's the point at 
which that outcome needs to be expected.
    I told him that I did believe, yes, that once those legal processes 
were run, if fraud had not been established that had affected the 
outcome of the election, then, unfortunately, I believed that what had 
to be done was concede the outcome.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Not only did the courts reject President 
Trump's fraud and other allegations, his Department of Justice 
appointees, including Bill Barr, Jeffrey Rosen, and Richard 
Donoghue, did as well. President Trump knew the truth.
    He heard what all his experts and senior staff were telling 
him. He knew he had lost the election. But he made the 
deliberate choice to ignore the courts, to ignore the Justice 
Department, to ignore his campaign leadership, to ignore senior 
advisers, and to pursue a completely unlawful effort to 
overturn the election. His intent was plain: Ignore the rule of 
law and stay in power.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Virginia, Mrs. 
Luria.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Mid-December was a turning point. President Trump made a 
decision, a choice, to ignore the courts and his advisers and 
to push forward to overturn the election.
    His efforts to overturn the election were not random or 
disconnected; rather, they were part of a coordinated, multi-
part plan to ensure that he stayed in power.
    Donald Trump was the driver behind each part of this plan. 
He was personally and directly involved.
    Of course, a key element of the plan was continuing to 
convince tens of millions of Americans that he did not, in 
fact, lose. Again, he did this even though his own campaign 
advisers and his Justice Department officials told him his 
claims of fraud were wrong.
    In this video, you will see that even when top law 
enforcement officials told the President his election fraud 
claims were false, he still repeated the claims in the days and 
weeks that followed, sometimes even the very next day.

    Attorney General Barr. He specifically raised the Dominion voting 
machines, which I found to be among the most disturbing allegations, 
disturbing in the sense that I saw absolutely zero basis for the 
allegations. I told him that it was crazy stuff, and they were wasting 
their time on that, and it was doing a grave disservice to the country.
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. We have a company that's very suspect. Its name is 
Dominion. With the turn of a dial or the change of a chip you can press 
a button for Trump and the vote goes to Biden. What kind of a system is 
this?
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Donoghue. We definitely talked about Antrim County again. That 
was sort-of done at that point, because the hand recount had been done 
and all that. But we cited back to that to say, you know, ``This is an 
example of what people are telling you and what's being filed in some 
of these court filings that are just not supported by the evidence. And 
this is the problem. The problem is people keep telling you these 
things and they turn out not to be true.''
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. In addition, there is the highly troubling matter 
of Dominion Voting Systems. In one Michigan County alone, 6,000 votes 
were switched from Trump to Biden, and the same systems are used in the 
majority of States in our country.
                                 ______
                                 
    Attorney General Barr. I went into this and would, you know, tell 
him how crazy some of these allegations were and how ridiculous some of 
them were. I'm talking about some of the things like, you know, more 
votes--more absentee votes were cast in Pennsylvania than there were 
absentee ballots requested, you know, stuff like that, it was just easy 
to blow up. There was never--there was never an indication of interest 
in what the actual facts were.
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. There were more votes than there were voters. 
Think of that. You had more votes than you had voters. That's an easy 
one to figure. And it's by the thousands.
                                 ______
                                 
    Attorney General Barr. Then he raised the big vote dump, as he 
called it, in Detroit, and he said people saw boxes coming into the 
counting station at all hours of the morning. And I said, ``Mr. 
President, there are 630 precincts in Detroit, and unlike elsewhere in 
the State, they centralize the counting process so they're not counted 
in each precinct. They're moved to counting stations. And so the normal 
process would involve boxes coming in at all different hours.''
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. This is Michigan. At 6:31 in the morning, a vote 
dump of 149,772 votes came in unexpectedly.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Donoghue. With regard to Georgia, we looked at the tape. We 
interviewed the witnesses. There is no suitcase. The President kept 
fixating on this suitcase that supposedly had fraudulent ballots and 
that the suitcase was rolled out from under the table. And I said, 
``No, sir, there is no suitcase. You can watch that video over and 
over. There is no suitcase. There is a wheeled bin where they carry the 
ballots, and that's just how they move ballots around that facility. 
There's nothing suspicious about that at all.''
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. Election officials pull boxes, Democrats, and 
suitcases of ballots out from under a table. You all saw it on 
television. Totally fraudulent.

    Mrs. Luria. This happened over and over again, and our 
Committee's report will document it, purposeful lies made in 
public directly at odds with what Donald Trump knew from 
unassailable sources, the Justice Department's own 
investigations, and his own campaign. Donald Trump maliciously 
repeated this nonsense to a wide audience over and over again. 
His intent was to deceive.
    President Trump's plan also involved trying to coerce 
Government officials to change the election outcome in the 
States he lost. He personally reached out to numerous State 
officials and pressured them to take unlawful steps to alter 
the election results in those States.
    These actions, taken directly by the President himself, 
made it clear what his intentions were: to prevent the orderly 
transfer of power.
    We all recall, for example, President Trump's tape-recorded 
call with Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger. At the 
time this call occurred, President Trump had already been told 
repeatedly by the U.S. Justice Department, by his campaign, and 
by his advisers that his allegations of fraud in Georgia were 
false.

    President Trump. So, look, all I want to do is this. I just want to 
find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have, because we won the 
State.
    Look, we need only 11,000 votes. We have far more than that as it 
stands now. We'll have more and more.
    So what are we going to do here, folks? I only need 11,000 votes. 
Fellas, I need 11,000 votes. Give me a break.

    Mrs. Luria. ``I just want to find 11,780 votes.'' That is 
an extraordinary demand by the President, especially since he 
already knew from the Justice Department there was no genuine 
basis for this request. No one could think it would be legal 
for the secretary of state to simply ``find the votes'' the 
President needed in order to win.
    Secretary Raffensperger told the President the truth--that 
he lost the election in Georgia. But President Trump did not 
accept that answer. Instead, he suggested that Secretary 
Raffensperger himself might be prosecuted.

    President Trump. That's a--you know, that's a criminal--that's a 
criminal offense. And, you know, you can't let that happen. That's a 
big risk to you and to Ryan, your lawyer. That's a big risk.

    Mrs. Luria. We know that President Trump's White House 
advisors reacted negatively. Immediately after the call, 
Cassidy Hutchinson had a conversation with Chief of Staff Mark 
Meadows.

    Ms. Hutchinson. I remember looking at Mark, and I said, ``Mark, he 
can't possibly think we're going to pull this off. Like, that call was 
crazy.'' And he looked at me and just started shaking his head, and 
he's like, ``No, Cass, you know, he knows it's over. He knows he lost. 
But we're going to keep trying. There are some good options out there 
still. We're going to keep trying.''

    Mrs. Luria. This call and other related activity is now the 
focus of an ongoing criminal investigation in Fulton County, 
Georgia.
    Georgia is not the only State where President Trump tried 
to pressure State officials to change the results. He also 
attempted to pressure State officials in Arizona, Pennsylvania, 
and Michigan to change the results in those States as well.
    While President Trump was pressuring State officials, he 
was also trying to use the Department of Justice to change the 
election result. His top officials told him that there was no 
evidence to support his claims of fraud, but he didn't care. As 
he told them, ``Just say the election was corrupt, and leave 
the rest to me and the [Republican] Congressmen.''
    When these officials would not do what he said, President 
Trump embarked on an effort to install Jeff Clark as Acting 
Attorney General, solely because he would do what others in the 
Department would not do.
    We know that Trump was doing so for a specific purpose: so 
Clark could corruptly employ the Justice Department's authority 
to help persuade the States to flip electoral votes.
    For example, when Richard Donoghue and Jeff Rosen, both 
appointed by President Trump, learned of Mr. Clark's proposal, 
here is why they said they forcefully rejected it.

    Mr. Donoghue. And I recall toward the end saying, ``What you're 
proposing is nothing less than the United States Justice Department 
meddling in the outcome of a Presidential election.''
    But, more importantly, this was not based on fact. This was 
actually contrary to the facts as developed by Department 
investigations over the last several weeks and months. So I responded 
to that.
    And for the Department to insert itself into the political process 
this way I think would have had grave consequences for the country. It 
may very well have spiraled us into a constitutional crisis.

    Mrs. Luria. We know from our investigation that President 
Trump offered Jeff Clark the position of Acting Attorney 
General and that Jeff Clark had decided to accept it.
    The only reason this ultimately did not happen is that the 
White House Counsel and a number of Justice Department 
officials confronted the President in the Oval Office and 
threatened mass resignations.

    Mr. Donoghue. And then--and I said something to the effect of, 
``You're going to have a huge personnel blowout within hours, because 
you're going to have all kinds of problems with resignations and other 
issues, and that's not going to be in anyone's interest.''

    Mrs. Luria. The President ultimately relented, only because 
the entire leadership of the Department of Justice, as well as 
his White House Counsel, threatened to resign.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Florida, Mrs. 
Murphy, for an opening statement.
    Mrs. Murphy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    President Trump's efforts to unlawfully overturn the 
results of the 2020 election were not limited to the Big Lie 
and pressuring State officials and the Department of Justice 
officials. Another key part of the President's effort was a 
scheme to assemble fake electors to cast false electoral votes 
in the States that President Trump lost.
    This was something done not only with the President's 
knowledge but also with his direct participation. Ronna 
McDaniel, chair of the Republican National Committee, testified 
before this Committee that President Trump and his attorney Dr. 
John Eastman called her and asked her to arrange for the fake 
electors to meet and rehearse the process of casting their fake 
votes.

    Ms. McDaniel. When I received the call--again, I don't remember the 
exact date--it was from the White House switchboard, and it was 
President Trump who had contacted me.
    Mr. Wood. And did President Trump have anyone else on the line with 
him?
    Ms. McDaniel. He introduced me to a gentleman named John Eastman. 
So I vaguely remember him mentioning that he was a professor, and then 
essentially he turned the call over to Mr. Eastman, who then proceeded 
to talk about the importance of the RNC helping the campaign gather 
these contingent electors in case any of the legal challenges that were 
ongoing changed the result of any of the States.

    Mrs. Murphy. These fake electors were ultimately part of 
the President's plan to replace genuine Biden electors with 
Trump electors on January 6th. As part of this plan, the false 
electoral slates were sent to the National Archives and to the 
Capitol.
    The ``fake electors'' plan was also tied to another plan: 
the coercive pressure campaign to make Vice President Mike 
Pence reject or refuse to count certain Biden electoral votes 
so that President Donald Trump would ``win'' reelection 
instead.
    Here is what Vice President Pence has said about this 
scheme.

    Vice President Pence. President Trump said I had the right to 
overturn the election, but President Trump is wrong. I had no right to 
overturn the election. The Presidency belongs to the American people 
and the American people alone. And, frankly, there is no idea more un-
American than the notion that any one person could choose the American 
President.

    Mrs. Murphy. Make no mistake: President Trump knew that 
what he was demanding Vice President Pence do was illegal. He 
was informed of this repeatedly and specifically on January 
4th.
    Even his lawyer John Eastman admitted in front of President 
Trump that this plan would break the law by violating the 
Electoral Count Act.

    Mr. Wood. Did John Eastman ever admit, as far as you know, in front 
of the President that his proposal would violate the Electoral Count 
Act?
    Mr. Jacob. I believe he did on the 4th.

    Mrs. Murphy. Dr. Eastman confirmed this in writing. Recall 
this email, written on January 6th, in which Vice President 
Pence's counsel asked Dr. Eastman, ``Did you advise the 
President that in your professional judgment the Vice President 
does not have the power to decide things unilaterally?'' Dr. 
Eastman replied, ``He's been so advised.''
    Of course, President Trump's own White House Counsel, Pat 
Cipollone, also recognized that this plan was unlawful. Here is 
Mr. Cipollone's testimony.

    Mr. Cipollone. My view is that the Vice President didn't have the 
legal authority to do anything except what he did.

    Mrs. Murphy. There is no doubt that President Trump's 
pressure campaign on Vice President Pence was significant.
    On the morning of January 6th, President Trump called the 
Vice President from the Oval Office and demanded that he 
overturn the results of the election. Numerous witnesses told 
the Select Committee about the invective that President Trump 
leveled at his own Vice President.
    Mr. Luna. Something to the effect--this is--the wording's wrong--
``I made the wrong decision 4 or 5 years ago.''
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Tonolli. And the word that she relayed to you that the 
President called the Vice President--I apologize for being impolite, 
but do you remember what she said her father called him?
    Ms. Radford. The P word.

    Mrs. Murphy. But Vice President Pence didn't waver, even 
when his own life was endangered by President Trump and the 
rioters at the Capitol on January 6th, as you'll see in more 
detail later.
    A Federal judge concluded, based on this and other 
evidence, that President Trump's pressure campaign against the 
Vice President likely violated multiple criminal statutes.
    In the end, all these people--Department of Justice 
officials, State elections officials, his own Vice President--
stood strong in the face of President Trump's immense pressure.
    But, as we now know, President Trump had already summoned 
tens of thousands of his supporters to Washington on January 
6th to ``take back'' their country.
    On December 19th, President Trump first told his supporters 
to come to Washington. In this and numerous other tweets, he 
fraudulently and repeatedly promoted January 6th as the day 
Americans could come and change the election outcome.
    For weeks, President Trump worked with others to plan the 
rally, intending all along that he would send an assembled 
crowd of angry supporters to the Capitol after his speech on 
the Ellipse on January 6th.
    We obtained a text message that one rally organizer sent on 
January 4th. In part, it reads that ``POTUS is going to have us 
march there/the Capitol'' and ``POTUS is going to just call for 
it `unexpectedly.' ''
    Again, each of these examples--the Big Lie, the pressure 
campaigns against State officials, the pressure campaign 
against the Department of Justice and his Vice President, the 
fake electors, summoning the mob--all of this demonstrates 
President Trump's personal and substantial role in the plot to 
overturn the election. He was intimately involved. He was the 
central player.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. 
Schiff, for an opening statement.
    Mr. Schiff. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    In our past hearings, you have seen direct evidence that 
President Trump sent a crowd of his supporters to the Capitol 
on January 6th knowing they were armed and angry. This was the 
last, most desperate and dangerous prong of his plan to disrupt 
the joint session and prevent the orderly transition of power.
    On the morning of the 6th, the Secret Service was at the 
Ellipse screening the members of the crowd as they entered the 
rally site, and they noticed something significant about the 
crowd: Tens of thousands of people were outside the rally site 
but did not want to go through the magnetometers, the metal 
detectors that were used to screen for dangerous weapons.
    Since our last hearings, the Select Committee has received 
greater cooperation from the Secret Service. Nevertheless, the 
Secret Service text messages from this period were erased in 
the days and months following the attack on the Capitol, even 
though documents and materials related to January 6th had 
already been requested by the Department of Justice and 
Congress.
    But we were able to obtain nearly 1 million emails, 
recordings, and other electronic records from the Secret 
Service. Over the month of August, the Select Committee began 
its review of hundreds of thousands of pages and multiple hours 
of that material, providing substantial new evidence about what 
happened on January 6th and the days leading up to it. That 
review continues.
    What you are about to hear is just a sample of the new and 
relevant evidence that we have received.
    Mounting evidence before January 6th predicted violence--
and not just violence generally but violence directed at the 
Capitol. Intelligence about this risk was directly available to 
the U.S. Secret Service and others in the White House in 
advance of the Ellipse speech, in advance of the march to the 
Capitol. The Committee has shown evidence that President Trump 
was aware of the risk of violence.
    The FBI, U.S. Capitol Police, Metropolitan Police, and 
other agencies all gathered and disseminated intelligence 
suggesting the possibility of violence at the Capitol prior to 
the riot.
    We are now going to show you just a sample of the evidence 
we have received.
    Days before January 6th, the President's senior advisors at 
the Department of Justice and FBI, for example, received an 
intelligence summary that included material indicating that 
certain people traveling to Washington were making plans to 
attack the Capitol.
    This summary noted online ``calls to occupy Federal 
buildings''; rhetoric about ``invading the Capitol Building''; 
and plans to ``arm themselves and to engage in political 
violence at the event.''
    Other agencies were also hearing predictions suggesting 
possible violence at the Capitol. On a call with President 
Trump's White House national security staff in early January 
2021, Deputy Secretary of Defense David Norquist had warned 
about the potential that the Capitol would be the target of the 
attack.
    Here is General Mark Milley, who was also present for this 
call, describing Deputy Secretary Norquist's warning.

    General Milley. So, during these calls--I only remember in 
hindsight because he was almost, like, clairvoyant. Norquist says 
during one of these calls, ``The greatest threat is a direct assault on 
the Capitol.'' I'll never forget it.

    Mr. Schiff. This email, for example, was an alert that the 
Secret Service received on December 24th with the heading 
``Armed and Ready, Mr. President.'' According to the 
intelligence, multiple users online were targeting Members of 
Congress, instructing others to ``march into the chambers'' on 
January 6th and ``make sure they know who to fear.''
    In this report, received on December 26th, a Secret Service 
field office relayed a tip that had been received by the FBI. 
According to the source of the tip, the Proud Boys planned to 
march, armed, into DC.
    ``They think that they will have a large enough group to 
march into D.C. armed,'' the source reported, ``and will 
outnumber the police so they can't be stopped.'' The source 
went on to say, ``Their plan is to literally kill people. 
Please, please take this tip seriously and investigate 
further.''
    The source also made clear that ``the Proud Boys had 
detailed their plans on multiple websites,'' like the 
TheDonald.win.
    Let's pause here. The Secret Service had advance 
information, more than 10 days beforehand, regarding the Proud 
Boys' planning for January 6th. We know now, of course, that 
the Proud Boys and others did lead the assault on our Capitol 
Building.
    On December 31st, agents circulated intelligence reports 
that ``President Trump supporters have proposed a movement to 
occupy Capitol Hill.'' In particular, they flagged spikes in 
violent hashtags like ``We Are the Storm,'' ``1776 Rebel,'' and 
``Occupy Capitols.''
    On January 5th, a Secret Service Open Source Unit flagged a 
social media account on TheDonald.win that threatened to 
``bring a sniper rifle'' to a rally on January 6th. The user 
also posted a picture of a handgun and rifle with the caption 
``Sunday Gun Day Providing Overwatch January 6th Will be 
Wild!''
    Later on the evening of January 5th, the Secret Service 
learned during an FBI briefing that right-wing groups were 
establishing armed QRFs, or quick reaction forces, readying to 
deploy for January 6th. Groups like the Oath Keepers were 
``standing by at the ready should POTUS request assistance'' by 
invoking the Insurrection Act, agents were informed.
    As we all know now, the Oath Keepers did play a specific 
role on January 6th and had stashed weapons in Virginia for 
further violence that evening.
    Also on that day, the Secret Service was readying its 
security precautions for the President's speech at the Ellipse 
the next day. A Secret Service deputy chief instructed agents 
to add certain objects to the list of items that would be 
prohibited at the rally site, including ``ballistic vests, 
tactical vests (armored or not), and ballistic helmets.''
    By the morning of January 6th, it was clear that the Secret 
Service anticipated violence. It felt like the ``calm before 
the storm,'' one agent predicted in a Protective Intelligence 
Division chat group. Another remarked how agents were 
``watching the crazies'' on livestream.
    By 9:09 that morning, the Secret Service could also see 
that many rally-goers were assembled outside the security 
perimeter. One agent emailed, ``Possibly [because] they have 
stuff that couldn't come through? Would probably be an issue 
with this crowd. Just a thought.''
    By 9:30 that morning, agents reported more than 25,000 
people outside the rally site. An hour later, the Secret 
Service reported that the crowd was ``on The Mall watching but 
not in line.''
    The head of the President's Secret Service protective 
detail, Robert Engel, was specifically aware of the large 
crowds outside the magnetometers. He passed that information 
along to Tony Ornato, who worked for Mark Meadows in the chief 
of staff's office.
    The documents we obtained from the Secret Service make 
clear that the crowd outside the magnetometers was armed and 
the agents knew it. Take a look at what they were seeing and 
hearing on the ground.
    One report from the rally site at 7:58 a.m. said, ``Some 
members of the crowd are wearing ballistic helmets, body armor, 
carrying radio equipment and military-grade backpacks.''
    Another, from 9:30 a.m., said that there were ``possibly OC 
spray,'' meaning pepper spray, ``and/or plastic riot shields.''
    At 11:23 a.m., agents also reported ``possible armed 
individuals, one with a Glock, one with a rifle.''
    Over the next hour, agents reported ``possible man with a 
gun reported . . . confirmed pistol on hip, located in a tree . 
. . '' and ``one detained at 14th and I Street NW. Individual 
had an assault rifle on his person.''
    Minutes before President Trump began his speech, members of 
the Federal Protective Service, an agency tasked with 
protecting Federal buildings, were alerted about an arrest of a 
protester with a gun on his waistband.
    During the speech, the weapons-related arrests continued. 
At 12:13 p.m., United States Park Police arrested a man with a 
rifle in front of the World War II Memorial.
    These agents remarked on the number of weapons that had 
been seized that day, speculating that the situation could get 
worse. ``With so many weapons found so far, you wonder how many 
are unknown,'' one agent wrote at 12:36 p.m. ``Could be sporty 
after dark.''
    At 12:47 p.m., another agent responded, ``No doubt. The 
people at the Ellipse said they are moving to the Capitol after 
the POTUS speech.''
    As the documents we received make clear, the Secret Service 
was aware of weapons possessed by those gathered at rallies in 
DC as early as the evening before.
    Take this document, for instance, which details multiple 
arrests in the crowds demonstrating on January 5th. Those 
arrests were for weapons offenses--handguns, high-capacity 
feeding devices, ammunition.
    What the Secret Service saw on the 6th was entirely 
consistent with the violent rhetoric circulating in the days 
before the joint session on pro-Trump websites, at times 
amplified by the President's own advisors.
    One of these sites, as you have heard, was called 
TheDonald.win. The Select Committee has obtained a text message 
that Jason Miller, a senior communications advisor, sent to 
Mark Meadows less than a week before January 6th. ``I got the 
base FIRED UP,'' he wrote in all caps.
    He sent a link to this page on TheDonald.win. The linked 
web page had comments about the joint session of Congress on 
January 6th. Take a look at some of those comments:
    ``Gallows don't require electricity.''
    ``If the filthy commie maggots try to push their fraud 
through, there will be hell to pay.''
    ``Our `lawmakers' in Congress can leave one of two ways: 1. 
In a bodybag. 2. After rightfully certifying Trump the 
winner.''
    Mr. Miller claimed that he had no idea about the hundreds 
of comments like these in the link that he sent to Mark 
Meadows.

    Mr. Jason Miller. If I had seen something like that, I probably 
would've flipped it to someone at the White--or, if I had seen 
something of that nature, I would've said, you know, flag this for 
Secret Service or something of that nature.

    Mr. Schiff. But the Trump administration was aware of this 
type of violent rhetoric prior to January 6th. In fact, as we 
have seen, the Secret Service and other agencies knew of the 
prospect of violence well in advance of the President's speech 
at the Ellipse.
    Despite this, certain White House and Secret Service 
witnesses previously testified that they had received no 
intelligence about violence that could have potentially 
threatened any of the protectees on January 6th, including the 
Vice President. Evidence strongly suggests that this testimony 
is not credible, and the Committee is reviewing additional 
material from the Secret Service and other sources.
    The Secret Service was monitoring this kind of online 
activity and was sharing and receiving the results of that 
effort. They worked closely with other agencies, sharing 
intelligence about the joint session of Congress derived from 
social media and other sources.
    The same day Jason Miller sent his text message, agents 
received reports about a spike in activity on another platform 
called Parler. This was December 30th.
    In this email, an agent received a report noting ``a lot of 
violent rhetoric on Parler directed at government people [and] 
entities,'' including Secret Service protectees. One of these 
protectees was Vice President Pence, perhaps the primary target 
of President Trump's pressure campaign in the days leading up 
to January 6th.
    The day before the joint session, on January 5th, Secret 
Service was aware of increased ``chatter focused on Vice 
President Pence''--in particular, whether he would do what 
President Trump wanted him to do: reverse the results of the 
election in the joint session the next day, January 6th.
    On the morning of the 6th, agents received alerts of online 
threats that Vice President Pence would be ``a dead man walking 
if he doesn't do the right thing.'' Another agent reported, ``I 
saw several other alerts saying they will storm the Capitol if 
he doesn't do the right thing.''
    The anger reflected in these postings was obvious to the 
man at the center of the storm on January 6th--President Trump.
    On the evening of January 5th, President Trump gathered a 
few of his communications staffers in the Oval Office. The door 
was open, allowing the President and others assembled there to 
hear the sounds of the crowd gathered at Freedom Plaza just a 
few blocks from the White House. President Trump could tell 
that his supporters were riled up.
    Here again is Judd Deere, a deputy White House press 
secretary, describing the President's reaction.

    Mr. Deere. He fairly quickly moved to how fired up the crowd is--or 
was going to be.
    Mr. Wood. Okay. And what did he say about it?
    Mr. Deere. Just that they were fired up, they were angry, they feel 
like the election has been stolen, that the election was rigged, that--
he went on and on about that for a little bit.

    Mr. Schiff. Yes, the President knew the crowd was angry--
because he had stoked that anger. He knew that they believed 
that the election had been rigged and stolen--because he had 
told them, falsely, that it had been rigged and stolen.
    By the time he incited that angry mob to march on the 
Capitol, he knew they were armed and dangerous--all the better 
to stop the peaceful transfer of power.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    At this point in our meeting, we will take a brief recess. 
Pursuant to the order of the Committee of today, the Chair 
declares the Committee in recess for a period of approximately 
10 minutes.
    [Accordingly, at 2:27 p.m., the Committee recessed until 
2:43 p.m., when it was called to order by the Chairman.]
    Chairman Thompson. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California, Mr. Aguilar, for an opening statement.
    Mr. Aguilar. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    On the morning of January 6th, President Trump knew that 
the crowd was angry. He knew that they were armed and 
dangerous. And he knew that they were going to the Capitol.
    It is important to understand the lengths the President was 
willing to go to physically be at the Capitol because it was 
part of his strategy to disrupt Congress and to stay in power.
    As the time for the Ellipse rally approached, an email was 
circulated among intelligence officials, including a Secret 
Service intelligence official, attaching communications among 
rally-goers that specifically contemplated violence.
    ``Trump has given us marching orders,'' one post on 
TheDonald.win wrote. ``Basically, if you're east of the 
Mississippi, you can and should be there.'' ``ADVANCE ON THE 
CAPITAL!'' ``Keep your guns hidden . . . Don't fuck around, 
full kits, 180 rounds minimum for main rifle, another 50 for 
sidearm, per person.''
    What is clear from this record is that the White House had 
more than enough warning to warrant stopping any plan for an 
Ellipse rally and certainly for stopping any march to the 
Capitol.
    As evidence from our prior hearings has suggested, the 
President was aware of this information.
    But, despite awareness of the potential for violence and 
weapons among the crowd, the Ellipse event nevertheless went 
forward, and Donald Trump instructed the angry crowd, some of 
whom were armed, to march to the Capitol.
    As my colleague Mr. Schiff just described, the Secret 
Service reported that thousands in the crowd near the 
Washington Monument would not enter the rally area because 
magnetometers used in screening attendees would detect any 
prohibited items they carried. Mr. Trump knew this. The Secret 
Service had told him about it that morning.
    Even in spite of these warnings, Cassidy Hutchinson 
overheard the President say this shortly before he took the 
stage:

    Ms. Hutchinson. He wanted it full, and he was angry that we weren't 
letting people through the mags with weapons--what the Secret Service 
deemed as weapons and are--are weapons.
    I was in the vicinity of a conversation where I overheard the 
President say something to the effect of, you know, ``I don't F'ing 
care that they have weapons. They're not here to hurt me. Take the 
F'ing mags away. Let my people in. They can march to the Capitol from 
here. Let the people in. Take the F'ing mags away.''

    Mr. Aguilar. When he went onstage, President Trump himself 
asked law enforcement to let his supporters into the rally 
site.

    President Trump. And I'd love to have--if those tens of thousands 
of people would be allowed. The military, the Secret Service. And we 
want to thank you and the police law enforcement. Great--you're doing a 
great job. But I'd love it if they could be allowed to come up here 
with us. Is that possible? Can you just let them come up, please?

    Mr. Aguilar. President Trump then told his supporters to 
march to the Capitol.
    Let's pause at this point to consider President Trump's 
state of mind, his motivation at this moment.
    By that point, it was known to Secret Service that members 
of the crowd were armed. President Trump had been told. There 
was no doubt that President Trump knew what he was going to 
do--sending an angry mob, a number of whom were clad in 
tactical gear and military garb, armed with various weapons, to 
the Capitol.
    There is no scenario where that action is benign, and there 
is no scenario where an American President should have engaged 
in that conduct. It did not matter whether President Trump 
believed the election had been stolen or not; this could not be 
justified on any basis, for any reason.
    You may also recall testimony from our summer hearings 
regarding Mr. Trump's efforts to lead the mob to the Capitol 
himself and his angry altercation in the Presidential SUV when 
the Secret Service told him it was far too dangerous for him to 
go.
    As we detailed in testimony from the Metropolitan Police 
and White House personnel during our July 21st hearing, 
information about the altercation was widely known--so widely 
known that one former White House employee with national 
security responsibilities explained that this information was, 
in fact, water-cooler talk in the White House complex. As that 
professional told us, they remember hearing in the days after 
January 6th ``how angry the President was'' when he was in the 
limo that afternoon.
    That professional also testified that they were 
specifically informed of the President's ``irate'' behavior in 
the SUV by Mr. Ornato in Mr. Ornato's office. ``It was Mr. 
Engel . . . with Mr. Ornato in that office.'' ``They had 
expressed to me that the President was irate, you know, on the 
drive up.'' Mr. Engel ``did not deny the fact that the 
President was irate.''
    That, of course, corresponds closely with the testimony you 
saw this summer from Cassidy Hutchinson, a Metropolitan Police 
Officer who was in the motorcade, and from multiple sources.
    Additionally, after concluding its review of the voluminous 
additional Secret Service communications from January 5th and 
January 6th, the Committee will be recalling witnesses and 
conducting further investigative depositions based on that 
material. Following that activity, we will provide even greater 
detail in our final report.
    I will also note this: The Committee is reviewing testimony 
regarding potential obstruction on this issue, including 
testimony about advice given not to tell the Committee about 
this specific topic. We will address this matter in our report.
    We also want to remind you now of how security 
professionals working in the White House complex and who 
reported to national security officials responded when they 
learned that Mr. Trump intended to lead the mob to the Capitol.

    Security Professional. To be completely honest, we were all in a 
state of shock.
    Ms. Dayananda. Because why?
    Security Professional. Because it just--one, I think the actual 
physical feasibility of doing it, and then, also, we all knew what that 
implicated and what that meant: that this was no longer a rally, that 
this was going to move to something else if he physically walked to the 
Capitol. I don't know if you want to use the word ``insurrection,'' 
``coup,'' whatever. We all knew that this would move from a normal, 
democratic, you know, public event into something else.
    Why were we alarmed?
    Ms. Dayananda. Right.
    Security Professional. The President wanted to lead tens of 
thousands of people to the Capitol. I think that was enough grounds for 
us to be alarmed.

    Mr. Aguilar. President Trump was still considering 
traveling to the Capitol even after returning to the White 
House. He knew well before 2 p.m. that a violent riot was 
underway at the Capitol. He was aware of the ongoing 
lawlessness. But his motorcade was held on West Executive 
Avenue, outside the White House, because he still wanted to 
join the crowd.
    Here is Kayleigh McEnany, the White House press secretary, 
describing an exchange she had with the President as soon as he 
arrived back at the White House.

    Ms. McEnany. So, to the best of my recollection, I recall him 
being--wanting to--saying that he wanted to physically walk and be a 
part of the march and then saying that he would ride the Beast if he 
needed to, ride in the Presidential limo.

    Mr. Aguilar. From the Secret Service, the Select Committee 
has also obtained important new evidence on this issue. It 
shows how frantic this hour must have been for the Secret 
Service, scrambling to get the President of the United States 
to back down from a dangerous and reckless decision that put 
people in harm's way.
    Take a look at this Secret Service email from 1:19 p.m. on 
January 6th, the minute that President Trump got out of the 
Presidential vehicle back at the White House.
    As soon as the President left his motorcade, leadership 
from the Secret Service contacted Bobby Engel, the lead agent 
for the Presidential detail, and warned him that they were 
``concerned about an OTR''--an off-the-record movement--``to 
the Capitol.''
    The people sworn to protect the safety of the President of 
the United States, and who routinely put themselves in harm's 
way, were convinced that this was a bad idea.
    Secret Service documents also reveal how agents were poised 
to take President Trump to the Capitol later that afternoon. 
Agents were instructed to don their protective gear and prepare 
for a movement. A few minutes later, they were told the 
President would leave for the Capitol in 2 hours.
    It wasn't until 1:55 p.m. that the President's lead Secret 
Service agent told them to stand down. ``We are not doing an 
OTR to [the Capitol].'' By then, rioters had breached the 
Capitol and were violently attacking the efforts of the brave 
men and women in law enforcement trying to resist the mob.
    President Trump may not have gone to the Capitol on January 
6th, but what he did from the White House cannot be justified. 
While congressional leaders, both Democrats and Republicans, 
worked with Vice President Pence to try and address the 
violence, President Trump refused urgent pleas for help from 
nearly everyone around him, and what he did do only made the 
situation worse.
    Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. 
Raskin, for an opening statement.
    Mr. Raskin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    The President was still exhorting his supporters at the 
Ellipse to go ``fight like hell'' at 12:50, around the time 
that the first wave of rioters first breached barricades 
defending the Capitol.
    Secret Service documents we recently received give a time 
line of precisely what the White House knew and when.
    At 1:19, the President's emergency operations center sent 
an email to Secret Service, national security, and military 
advisors to the President and Vice President, informing them 
that ``hundreds of Trump supporters stormed through metal 
barricades at the back of the Capitol Building about 1 p.m. 
Wednesday, running past security guards and breaking fences.''
    When the President returned to the White House around 1:20, 
he entered the Oval Office and was told right then about the 
onset of violence at the Capitol.
    From that point until approximately 4 p.m., over the next 2 
hours and 40 minutes, the President stayed in the White House 
dining room attached to the Oval Office and watched this 
unprecedented assault take place at the Capitol.
    We have testimony from several members of the President's 
White House staff establishing that President Trump refused 
entreaties from his closest advisors and family members to tell 
his supporters to stand down and leave the Capitol.
    Here is the testimony of President Trump's White House 
Counsel, Pat Cipollone.

    Mr. Cipollone. I can't talk about conversations with the President, 
but I can generically say that I said, you know, people need to be 
told, there needs to be a public announcement, fast, that they need to 
leave the Capitol.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And, Pat, could you let us know approximately 
when you said that?
    Mr. Cipollone. Approximately when? Almost immediately after I found 
out people were getting into the Capitol or approaching the Capitol in 
a way that was violent.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Who on the staff did not want people to leave 
the Capitol?
    Mr. Cipollone. On the staff?
    Vice Chair Cheney. In the White House.
    Mr. Cipollone. I can't think of anybody, you know, on that day who 
didn't want people to get out of the Capitol, particularly once the 
violence started. No. I mean----
    Mr. Schiff. What about the President?
    Vice Chair Cheney. Yes.
    Mr. Cipollone. Well, she said the staff. So I answered.
    Vice Chair Cheney. No, I said in the White House.
    Mr. Cipollone. Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. I thought you said who 
else on the staff.
    Yes. I can't reveal communications. But, obviously, I think, you 
know--yes.

    Mr. Raskin. Mr. Cipollone's testimony is corroborated by 
multiple other White House staff members, including Cassidy 
Hutchinson. Here is Ms. Hutchinson describing what she heard 
from Mark Meadows.

    Ms. Hutchinson. He had said something to the effect of, you know, 
``You heard him, Pat. He doesn't want to do anything more. He doesn't 
think they're doing anything wrong.''

    Mr. Raskin. A former White House employee with national 
security duties similarly recalled an exchange between Mr. 
Cipollone and Eric Herschmann about President Trump's inaction 
against the mob assault underway at the Capitol. ``Mr. 
Herschmann . . . said something to Mr. Cipollone. He seemed to 
relay that, you know, the President didn't want anything 
done.''
    Throughout this period, some of the President's most 
important political allies, family members, and senior staff 
all begged him to tell his supporters to disperse and go home. 
They included Sean Hannity; Laura Ingraham and other allies at 
Fox News; his son, Donald Trump, Jr.; the House Minority 
Leader, Kevin McCarthy; others in Congress; and officials in 
the Cabinet and Executive branch. All of them made appeals to 
Donald Trump, which he rejected and he ignored.
    The Select Committee interviewed several people who were in 
the dining room with Donald Trump that afternoon, and every 
single one of these witnesses told us that he was watching the 
violent battles rage on television. He did not call his 
Secretary of Defense or the National Guard, the chief of the 
Capitol Police, or the chief of the Metropolitan Police 
Department.

    Mr. Wood. And, to your knowledge, was the President in that private 
dining room the whole time that the attack on the Capitol was going on? 
Or did he ever go--again, only to your knowledge--to the Oval Office, 
to the White House Situation Room, anywhere else?
    Ms. McEnany. To the best of my recollection, he was always in the 
dining room.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. What did they say, Mr. Meadows or the President, at 
all, during that brief encounter that you were in the dining room? What 
do you recall?
    General Kellogg. I think they were--everybody was watching the TV.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Apecechea. Do you know whether he was watching TV in the dining 
room when you talked to him on January 6th?
    Ms. Michael. It's my understanding he was watching television.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. When you were in the dining room, in these discussions, 
was the violence at the Capitol visible on the screen, on the 
television?
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes.

    Mr. Raskin. As the President watched the bloody attack 
unfold on Fox News from his dining room, Members of Congress 
and other Government officials stepped in to the gigantic 
leadership void created by the President's chilling and studied 
passivity that day.
    What you are about to see is previously unseen footage of 
congressional leaders, both Republicans and Democrats, as they 
were taken to a secure location during the riot.
    You will see how everyone involved was working actively to 
stop the violence, to get Federal law enforcement deployed to 
the scene to put down the violence and secure the Capitol 
complex--not just Democrats like Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House 
Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, but Republicans like Vice 
President Pence, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, 
Majority Whip John Thune, and countless other appointees across 
the administration.
    All of them did what President Trump was not doing, what he 
simply refused to do. Take a listen.

    Voice. We're starting to get surrounded. They're taking the North 
Front scaffolding.
    Voice. Unless we get more munitions, we are not gonna be able to 
hold.
    Voice. A door has been breached, and people are gaining access into 
the Capitol.
    Speaker Pelosi. Well, you know what? We have got to finish the 
proceedings, or else they're going to have a complete victory.
    Crowd. U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A!
    Voice. Senator Schumer is at a secure location, and they're locked 
down in the Senate.
    Speaker Pelosi. There has to be some way we can maintain the sense 
that people have that there is some security or some confidence that 
government can function and that we can elect the President of the 
United States.
    Did we go back into session?
    Voice. We did go back into session, but now apparently everybody on 
the floor is putting on tear gas masks to prepare for a breach. I'm 
trying to get more information.
    Speaker Pelosi. They're putting on their----
    Voice. Tear gas masks.
    Speaker Pelosi. Do you believe this? Do you believe this?
    Voice. I can't.
    Voice. We need an area for the House Members. They're all walking 
over now through the tunnels.
    Crowd. Bring her out! Bring her out here! We're coming in if you 
don't bring her out!
    Senator Schumer. I'm going to call up the F'ing Secretary of DOD.
    We have some Senators who are still in their hideaways. They need 
massive personnel now. Can you get the Maryland National Guard to come 
too?
    Speaker Pelosi. I have something to say, Mr. Secretary. I'm gonna 
call the Mayor of Washington, DC, right now and see what other outreach 
she has, other police departments, as Steny--Leader Hoyer has 
mentioned.
    Voice. Officer down. Get him up. Get him up.
    Voice. Hold up.
    Voice. Get him up.
    Voice. Hold up.
    Speaker Pelosi. Hi, Governor. This is Nancy. Governor, I don't know 
if you have been approached about the Virginia National Guard. Mr. 
Hoyer was speaking to Governor Hogan. But I still think you probably 
need the okay of the Federal Government in order to come into another 
jurisdiction? Thank you.
    Oh, my gosh. They're just breaking windows. They're doing all kinds 
of--it's really--that somebody--they said somebody was shot. It's 
just--it's just horrendous. And all at the instigation of the President 
of the United States.
    Okay, thank you, Governor. I appreciate what you're doing. And, if 
you don't mind, I'd like to stay in touch. Thank you. Thank you. Bye-
bye.
    Senator Schumer. The Virginia Guard has been called in.
    Speaker Pelosi. Yes, I was just talking to Governor Northam. And 
what he said is, they sent 200 of State police and a unit of the 
National Guard.
    They're breaking windows and going in, obviously ransacking our 
offices and all the rest of that. That's nothing. The concern we have 
about personal harm----
    Senator Schumer. Safety.
    Speaker Pelosi. [continuing]. Personal safety is--it just 
transcends everything. But the fact is, on any given day they're 
breaking the law in many different ways. And, quite frankly, much of it 
at the instigation of the President of the United States. And, now, if 
he could at least--somebody----
    Senator Schumer. Yes, why don't you get the President to tell them 
to leave the Capitol, Mr. Attorney General, in your law enforcement 
responsibility? A public statement they should all leave.
    Crowd. U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A!
    Senator Schumer. This cannot be just we're waiting for so-and-so. 
We need them there now, whoever you got. Okay?
    Mr. Hoyer. You also have troops--this is Steny Hoyer--troops at 
Fort McNair, Andrews Air Force Base, other military bases. We need 
Active Duty National Guard.
    Senator Schumer. How soon in the future can you have the place 
evacuated, you know, cleaned out?
    Voice. I don't want to speak for the leadership that's going to be 
responsible for executing the operation, so I'm not gonna say that, 
because they're the--on the ground and they're the experts.
    Speaker Pelosi. Well, just pretend--just pretend for a moment it 
was the Pentagon or the White House or some other entity that was under 
siege. And let me say, you can logistically get people there as you 
make the plan.
    [Crowd noise.]
    Speaker Pelosi. We're trying to figure out how we can get this job 
done today. We talked to Mitch about it earlier--he's not in the room 
right now, but he was with us earlier--and said, you know, we want to 
expedite this, and hopefully they could confine it to just one 
complaint, Arizona, and then we could vote and it would be--you know, 
then just move forward with the rest of the States.
    The overriding wish is to do it at the Capitol. What we are being 
told very directly is it's gonna take days for the Capitol to be okay 
again. We've gotten a very bad report about the condition of the House 
floor, with defecation and all that kind of thing as well. I don't 
think that that's hard to clean up, but I do think it is more from a 
security standpoint of making sure that everybody is out of the 
building, and how long will that take?
    I just got off with the Vice President.
    Senator Schumer. I got off with the Vice President-elect, so I'll 
tell you what she said.
    Speaker Pelosi. Okay.
    Senator Schumer. Yes.
    Speaker Pelosi. But what we left the conversation with--because he 
said he had the impression from Mitch that Mitch wants to get everybody 
back to do it there.
    Senator Schumer. Yes.
    Speaker Pelosi. I said, well, we're getting a counterpoint that it 
could take time to clean up the poo-poo that they're making all over 
the--literally and figuratively--in the Capitol and that it may take 
days to get back.
    Vice President Pence. Yes. So I'm at the Capitol Building. I'm 
literally standing with the chief of police of the U.S. Capitol Police. 
He just informed me what you will hear through official channels. Paul 
Irving, your Sergeant-at-Arms, will inform you that their best 
information is that they believe that the House and the Senate will be 
able to reconvene in roughly an hour.
    Senator Schumer. Good news.
    Vice President Pence. So your Sergeant-at-Arms will be in touch 
about the process for getting Members back in the building.
    Speaker Pelosi. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good news.

    Mr. Raskin. In this video, you just saw Senator Chuck 
Schumer urging Acting Attorney General Jeff Rosen to get 
President Trump to call off the rioters. Of course, Acting AG 
Rosen did take action to defend the Government, as did many 
other officials. But congressional leadership recognized on a 
bipartisan basis that President Trump was the only person who 
could get the mob to end its violent siege of the Congress, 
leave the Capitol, and go home.
    Here is Senator McConnell speaking after January 6th about 
how President Trump abandoned his duties and failed to do his 
job.

    Senator McConnell. It was obvious that only President Trump could 
end this. He was the only one who could. Former aides publicly begged 
him to do so. Loyal allies frantically called the administration.
    The President did not act swiftly. He did not do his job. He didn't 
take steps so Federal law could be faithfully executed and order 
restored. No.

    Mr. Raskin. In the midst of this violent chaos, Kevin 
McCarthy implored Donald Trump to tell his supporters in the 
mob to leave the Capitol. When that didn't work, McCarthy 
called Trump's adult children to try to get them to intercede 
with Trump to call off the insurrectionary violence.
    In our prior hearings, we showed you a description of what 
McCarthy told Republican Congresswoman Jaime Herrera Beutler 
about his conversation with Trump during the violence. Another 
witness, Mick Mulvaney, President Trump's former chief of 
staff, has also come forward and corroborated her shocking 
account.

    Ms. Herrera Beutler. You know, I asked Kevin McCarthy, who's the 
Republican Leader, about this. And he said he called Donald--he finally 
got through to Donald Trump, and he said, ``You have got to get on TV, 
you've got to get on Twitter, you've got to call these people off.''
    And you know what the President said to him? This is as it's 
happening. He said, ``Well, Kevin, these aren't my people. You know, 
these are--these are Antifa.''
    And Kevin responded and said, ``No, they're your people. They 
literally just came through my office windows, and my staff are running 
for cover. I mean, they're running for their lives. You need to call 
them off.''
    And the President's response to Kevin, to me, was chilling. He 
said, ``Well, Kevin, I guess they're just more upset about the 
election, you know, theft than you are.''
    And that's--you know, you've seen widespread reports of Kevin 
McCarthy and the President having basically a swearing conversation. 
That's when the swearing commenced. Because the President was basically 
saying, ``Nah, I'm okay with this.''
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Mulvaney. I had a conversation at some point in the day or week 
after the riot with Kevin McCarthy.
    And, yes, it was very similar to what Jaime had, the conversation 
she had retold about how he called and asked the President to get them 
to stop, and the President told him something along the lines of, 
``Kevin, maybe these people are just more angry about this than you 
are. Maybe they're more upset.'' I had a conversation similar to that 
with Kevin in the day to week after the riot.

    Mr. Raskin. We know how Kevin McCarthy described President 
Trump's conduct, both in public and in private.

    Mr. McCarthy. The President bears responsibility for Wednesday's 
attack on Congress by mob rioters. He should've immediately denounced 
the mob when he saw what was unfolding. These facts require immediate 
action by President Trump: accept his share of responsibility, quell 
the brewing unrest, and ensure President-elect Biden is able to 
successfully begin his term.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. McCarthy. But let be very clear to all of you, and I have been 
very clear to the President. He bears responsibility for his words and 
actions, no ifs, ands, or buts.
    I asked him personally today, does he hold responsibility for what 
happened? Does he feel bad about what happened? He told me he does have 
some responsibility for what happened. And he needs to acknowledge 
that.

    Mr. Raskin. At 2:24 p.m., knowing the deadly riot was now 
bearing down on his own Vice President, President Trump 
composed and sent a tweet attacking Vice President Pence, 
accusing him of cowardice for not unilaterally rejecting 
electoral college votes for Joe Biden and simply handing Trump 
the Presidency.
    The impact of that tweet was foreseeable and predictable. 
It further inflamed the mob, which was chanting ``Hang Mike 
Pence,'' and provoked them to even greater violence. This 
deliberate decision to further enrage the mob against Vice 
President Pence cannot be justified by anything that President 
Trump might have thought about the election.
    The tweet came precisely at the time Pence's Secret Service 
detail was most seriously concerned for the Vice President's 
physical safety.
    We have obtained new documents from the Secret Service, 
real-time chats, that underscore the threat they knew the Vice 
President would be facing because of the President's escalating 
incitement of the mob.
    After Trump's tweet, one agent in the Secret Service's 
Intelligence Division immediately warned, ``POTUS just tweeted 
about Pence. Probably not going to be good for Pence.''
    Another agent reported the dramatic impact of Trump's anti-
Pence tweet on his followers: ``POTUS said he lacked courage. 
Over 24,000 likes in under 2 minutes.''
    Employees at Twitter were nervously monitoring the 
situation. They knew that certain Twitter users were rioting at 
the Capitol and tweeting about it at the same time. As the 
afternoon progressed, the company detected a surge in violent 
hashtags on the platform, including lines of lethal incitement 
like ``Execute Mike Pence.''
    Listen to this former Twitter employee, Anika Navaroli, who 
first came to the Committee anonymously but has now bravely 
agreed to be named because she wants to speak out about the 
magnitude of the threats facing our people.

    Mr. Glick. And you were also seeing content on the platform at that 
time that was threatening toward the Vice President? Hashtag----
    Ms. Navaroli. Yes.
    Mr. Glick [continuing]. ``Execute Mike Pence''?
    Ms. Navaroli. They were literally calling for his execution.
    Mr. Glick. As this tweet was going out?
    Ms. Navaroli. Yes. And after, in response to this tweet too. 
Because I think, as many of Donald Trump's tweets did, it again fanned 
the flames. And it was individuals who were already constructing 
gallows, who were already willing, able, and wanting to execute someone 
and looking for someone to be killed. Now the individual who has called 
upon them to begin this coup is now pointing the finger at another 
individual while they're ready to do this.

    Mr. Raskin. Here is a small sample of the reactions that 
President Trump's fan-the-flames tweet provoked among Capitol 
rioters in real time.

    Voice. What percentage of the crowd is going to the Capitol?
    Voice. One hundred percent. It has spread like wildfire that Pence 
has betrayed us. And everybody is marching on the Capitol, all million 
of us. It's insane.
    Voice. Mike Pence will not stick up for Donald Trump. Mike Pence, 
traitor. Mike Pence is a traitor.
    Voice. Mike Pence has screwed us, in case you haven't heard yet.
    Voice. What happened? What happened?
    Voice. I keep hearing that Mike Pence has screwed us. That's the 
word. I keep hearing reports that Mike Pence has screwed us.

    Mr. Raskin. Between 2:30 and 2:35, within 10 minutes of 
President Trump's tweet, thousands of rioters overran the line 
that the Metropolitan Police Force's Civil Disturbance Unit was 
holding on the West Side of the Capitol. This was the first 
time in the history of the Metropolitan Police Department that 
a security line like that had ever been broken. President 
Trump's conduct that day was so shameful and so outrageous that 
it prompted numerous members of the White House staff and other 
Trump appointees to resign.
    In prior hearings, you have heard Deputy National Security 
Advisor Matt Pottinger and Deputy White House Press Secretary 
Sarah Matthews explain why they felt compelled to resign on 
that day.
    Since then, we have spoken to more high-ranking officials, 
like President Trump's envoy to Northern Ireland and former 
Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney and Transportation Secretary 
Elaine Chao, who resigned after the 6th in protest of Trump's 
misconduct and to dissociate themselves from his role in the 
violence.
    Take a listen to what they had to say.

    Mr. Mulvaney. I was stunned by the violence and was stunned by the 
President's apparent indifference to the violence. Now is the time for 
the President to be Presidential. I thought he failed at doing it. I 
thought he failed at a critical time to be the sort of leader that the 
Nation needed.
                                 ______
                                 
    Secretary of Transportation Chao. I think the events at the 
Capitol, however they occurred, were shocking. And it was something 
that, as I mentioned in my statement, that I could not put aside. And 
at a particular point the events were such that it was impossible for 
me to continue, given my personal values and my philosophy.
    I came as an immigrant to this country. I believe in this country. 
I believe in a peaceful transfer of power. I believe in democracy. And 
so I was--it was a decision that I made on my own.

    Mr. Raskin. When security assistance began to arrive at the 
Capitol and the tide turned against the insurrection, President 
Trump finally gave his painfully belated instruction at 4:17 
p.m.
    So after multiple hours of rioting and more than 100 
serious injuries suffered by our law enforcement officers, the 
crowd finally began to disperse. Listen carefully to what they 
said as they decided to leave the Capitol.

    Voice. I am here delivering the President's message. Donald Trump 
has asked everybody to go home. That's our order. He says, go home. He 
says, go home. Yes. He said to go home.

    Mr. Raskin. Finally, at 6:01, President Trump tweeted 
again, not to condemn the mass violence in any way but rather 
to excuse and glorify it. Significantly, he made it clear that 
he considered the violence perfectly foreseeable and 
predictable. Check it out.
    ``These are the things and events that happen when a sacred 
landslide election victory is so unceremoniously and viciously 
stripped away from great patriots who have been badly and 
unfairly treated for so long.''
    ``These are the things that happen,'' he said, giving the 
whole game away. Trump was telling us that the Vice President, 
the Congress, and all the injured and wounded cops, some of 
whom are with us today, got what was coming to us.
    According to Trump, January 6th should not be a day that 
lives in shame and infamy in our history but rather in glory. 
``Remember this day forever!'' he wrote proudly, as if he were 
talking about D-Day or the Battle of Yorktown.
    Trump did nothing to stop the deadly violence for obvious 
reasons: He thought it was all justified, he incited it, and he 
supported it.

    Mr. Heaphy. Would it have been possible at any moment for the 
President to walk down to the podium in the briefing room and talk to 
the Nation at any time, between when you first gave him that advice at 
2 o'clock and 4:17 when the video statement came out? Would that have 
been possible?
    Mr. Cipollone. Would it have been possible?
    Mr. Heaphy. Yes.
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes, it would have been possible.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Matthews. If the President had wanted to make a statement and 
address the American people, he could have been on camera almost 
instantly.
    And conversely, the White House press corps has offices that are 
located directly behind the briefing room. And so if he had wanted to 
make an address from the Oval Office, we could have assembled the White 
House press corps probably in a matter of minutes to get them into the 
Oval for him to do an on-camera address.

    Mr. Raskin. Mr. Chairman, nothing in law or fact could 
justify the President's failure to act.

    Vice Chair Cheney. And I assume you also would agree the President 
has a particular obligation to take care that the laws be faithfully 
executed?
    Mr. Cipollone. That is one of the President's obligations, correct.

    Mr. Raskin. Mr. Chairman, in numerous places our 
Constitution strongly opposes insurrection and rebellion. 
Article I gives Congress the power to ``call forth'' the 
Militia to ``suppress insurrections.'' Section 3 of the 14th 
Amendment disqualified from holding Federal and State office 
anyone who has sworn an oath to defend the Constitution but 
betrays it by engaging in ``insurrection or rebellion.''
    It was President Lincoln at the start of the Civil War in 
1861 who best explained why democracy rejects insurrection. 
Insurrection, he said, is a ``war upon the first principle of 
popular government--the rights of the people.''
    American democracy belongs to all the American people, not 
to a single man.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentleman yields back.
    During this Committee's first hearing, in July of last 
year, our witnesses were four police officers who helped repel 
the riots of January 6th. We asked them what they hoped to see 
the Committee accomplish over the course of our investigation.
    Officer Gonell wanted to know why the rioters were made to 
believe that the election process was rigged.
    Officer Fanone asked us to look into the actions and 
activities that resulted in the day's events.
    Officer Hodges was concerned about whether anyone in power 
had a role.
    Officer Dunn put it simply: Get to the bottom of what 
happened.
    We have worked for more than a year to get those answers. 
We have conducted more than a thousand interviews and 
depositions. We have received and reviewed hundreds of 
thousands of pages of documents.
    Thanks to the tireless work of our Members and 
investigators, we have left no doubt--none--that Donald Trump 
led an effort to upend American democracy that directly 
resulted in the violence of January 6th. He tried to take away 
the voice of the American people in choosing their President 
and replace the will of the voters with his will to remain in 
power. He is the one person at the center of the story of what 
happened on January 6th.
    So we want to hear from him. The Committee needs to do 
everything in our power to tell the most complete story 
possible and provide recommendations to help ensure nothing 
like January 6th ever happens again. We need to be fair and 
thorough and gain a full context for the evidence we have 
obtained.
    But the need for this Committee to hear from Donald Trump 
goes beyond our fact finding. This is a question about 
accountability to the American people. He must be accountable. 
He is required to answer for his actions. He is required to 
answer to those police officers who put their lives and bodies 
on the line to defend our democracy. He is required to answer 
to those millions of Americans whose votes he wanted to throw 
out as part of his scheme to remain in power. Whatever is 
underway to ensure this accountability under law, this 
Committee will demand a full accounting to every American 
person of the events of January 6th.
    So it is our obligation to seek Donald Trump's testimony. 
There is precedent in American history for Congress to compel 
the testimony of a President. There is also precedent for 
Presidents to provide testimony and documentary evidence to 
congressional investigators.
    We also recognize that a subpoena to a former President is 
a serious and extraordinary action. That is why we want to take 
this step in full view of the American people, especially 
because the subject matter at issue is so important to the 
American people and the stakes are so high for our future and 
our democracy.
    So I recognize the Vice Chair, Ms. Cheney of Wyoming, to 
offer a resolution.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to today's 
notice, I send to the desk a Committee resolution and ask for 
its immediate consideration.
    Chairman Thompson. The clerk will report the resolution.
    [The clerk reported the resolution as follows:]

                         committee resolution 1
    Resolved, That the Chairman be, and is hereby, directed to subpoena 
Donald J. Trump for documents and testimony in connection with the 
January 6th attack on the United States Capitol pursuant to section 
5(c)(4) of House Resolution 503 and clause 2(m) of rule XI of the Rules 
of the House of Representatives.

    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman from Wyoming is 
recognized on her resolution.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Mr. Chairman, our Committee now has sufficient information 
to answer many of the critical questions posed by Congress at 
the outset. We have sufficient information to consider criminal 
referrals for multiple individuals and to recommend a range of 
legislative proposals to guard against another January 6th.
    But a key task remains: We must seek the testimony under 
oath of January 6th's central player.
    More than 30 witnesses in our investigation have invoked 
their Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination, and 
several of those did so specifically in response to questions 
about their dealings with Donald Trump directly.
    Here are a few examples. This is Roger Stone with Oath 
Keepers at the Willard Hotel on the morning of January 6th, and 
here is Mr. Stone testifying before our Committee.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Did you speak to President Trump on his private 
cell phone on either January 5th or January 6th?
    Mr. Stone. Once again, on advice of counsel, I will assert my Fifth 
Amendment right to respectfully decline to answer your question.

    Vice Chair Cheney. This is General Michael Flynn walking 
with Oath Keepers on December 12, 2020. Here is General Flynn's 
testimony before our Committee.

    Mr. George. Did you, General Flynn, talk to President Trump at any 
point on January 6, 2021?
    General Flynn. The Fifth.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Here is John Eastman fraudulently 
instructing tens of thousands of angry protesters that the Vice 
President could change the election outcome on January 6th. 
Later, on this same day, Dr. Eastman acknowledged in writing 
that Donald Trump knew what he was attempting was illegal.
    Here is John Eastman testifying before our Committee.

    Mr. Wood. Did President Trump authorize you to discuss publicly 
your January 4, 2021, conversation with him?
    Mr. Eastman. Fifth.
    Mr. Wood. So is it your position that you can discuss in the media 
direct conversations you had with the President of the United States, 
but you will not discuss those same conversations with this Committee?
    Mr. Eastman. Fifth.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Here is Jeff Clark, who conspired with 
Donald Trump to corrupt the Department of Justice. President 
Trump wanted to appoint Jeff Clark as Acting Attorney General, 
and as you can see in this call log we obtained from the 
National Archives, he did so. Here is Mr. Clark testifying 
before our Committee.

    Mr. Wood. Mr. Clark, when did you first talk directly with 
President Trump?
    Mr. Clark. Fifth.
    Mr. Wood. Mr. Clark, did you discuss with President Trump 
allegations of fraud in the 2020 election?
    Mr. Clark. Fifth.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Other witnesses have also gone to 
enormous lengths to avoid testifying about their dealings with 
Donald Trump.
    Steve Bannon has been tried and convicted by a jury of his 
peers for contempt of Congress. He is scheduled to be sentenced 
for this crime later this month.
    Criminal proceedings regarding Peter Navarro continue.
    Mark Meadows, Donald Trump's former chief of staff, has 
refused to testify based upon executive privilege. The 
Committee's litigation with him continues.
    Mr. Chairman, at some point the Department of Justice may 
well unearth the facts that these and other witnesses are 
currently concealing.
    But our duty today is to our country and our children and 
our Constitution. We are obligated to seek answers directly 
from the man who set this all in motion, and every American is 
entitled to those answers so we can act now to protect our 
Republic.
    So this afternoon, I am offering this resolution: that the 
Committee direct the Chairman to issue a subpoena for relevant 
documents and testimony under oath from Donald John Trump in 
connection with the January 6th attack on the United States 
Capitol.
    Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
    Chairman Thompson. The gentlewoman yields back.
    If there is no further debate, the question is on agreeing 
to the resolution.
    Those in favor will say ``aye.''
    Those opposed, ``no.''
    In the opinion of the Chair, the ayes have it.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Mr. Chairman, I request a recorded vote.
    Chairman Thompson. A recorded vote is requested. The clerk 
will call the roll.
    [The clerk called the roll, and the result was announced as 
follows:]

                     Select Committee Rollcall No. 5
                         Committee Resolution 1
      Directing the Chairman to issue a subpoena to Donald J. Trump
                       Agreed to: 9 ayes to 0 noes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          Members                               Vote
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ms. Cheney, Vice Chair....................................          Aye
Ms. Lofgren...............................................          Aye
Mr. Schiff................................................          Aye
Mr. Aguilar...............................................          Aye
Mrs. Murphy (FL)..........................................          Aye
Mr. Raskin................................................          Aye
Mrs. Luria................................................          Aye
Mr. Kinzinger.............................................          Aye
Mr. Thompson (MS), Chairman...............................          Aye
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Chairman Thompson. The resolution is agreed to.
    Without objection, a motion to reconsider is laid on the 
table.
    The Chair requests that those in the hearing room remain 
seated until the Capitol Police have escorted Members from the 
room.
    Without objection, the Committee stands adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 3:32 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.]

                                 [all]
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 121 (Thursday, July 21, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3600-S3602]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   ELECTORAL COUNT ACT WORKING GROUP

  Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, for the past 6 months, I have been 
pleased to work with a bipartisan working group of about a dozen 
Senators for potential reforms of the Electoral Count Act and some 
related matters. I particularly want to thank our leaders of that 
bipartisan group, Senators Collins and Manchin, for organizing the 
group, keeping us focused on getting results, and leading to a process 
that has resulted in a positive outcome.
  This week, we are unveiling our proposed legislation. Our 
legislation, the Electoral Count Reform and Presidential Transition 
Improvement Act of 2022 will reform and modernize the badly outdated 
1887 ECA. In 1887, the Electoral Count Act was passed. It is in bad 
need of reform.
  On July 18, 2022, the Wall Street Journal ran an editorial authored 
by former President Jimmy Carter and former Secretary of State Jim 
Baker, who had previously served as Chief of Staff for President 
Reagan. In this editorial they wrote:

       We stand on opposite sides of the partisan divide, but we 
     believe it is better to search for solutions together than to 
     remain divided. This is particularly true of a vexing problem 
     that could wreak havoc during the 2024 presidential election: 
     the inadequacy of the Electoral Count Act of 1887.
       The act is an antiquated, muddled and potentially 
     unconstitutional law that allows uncertainty during a 
     critical step in the peaceful transfer of power. . . . 
     Weaknesses in the law started to become apparent after the 
     2000 election.

  The editorial continues:

       In 2021, the ambiguities of that law helped lead to the 
     violent assault on the U.S. Capitol as efforts were being 
     made to toss out several states' slates of electoral votes. 
     Fortunately, those efforts failed, and the rightful winners 
     took office. But the threat of confusion remains. Left 
     unclosed, loopholes in the act could allow a repeat of the 
     same destructive path that occurred in 2021.

  The Washington Post has written several editorials on this subject as 
well. The June 19, 2022, editorial in the Post entitled ``Fix the 
electoral count law now, before Trump tries to exploit it again'' 
reviewed the recent House committee hearings on the January 6 
insurrection. The editorial wrote:

       The House committee investigating the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol 
     attack heard damning testimony detailing how President Donald 
     Trump and a coterie of partisan lawyers advanced a dangerous 
     argument: that the vice president has the legal authority to 
     overturn a presidential election when Congress meets to count 
     electoral college votes. Trump official after Trump official 
     testified that they knew it was wrong. John Eastman, a 
     lawyer who advocated for the theory, acknowledged as much 
     in front of Mr. Trump on January 4, according to testimony 
     from Greg Jacob, who was Vice President Mike Pence's 
     general counsel. But Mr. Trump and his allies nevertheless 
     waged a relentless public campaign to pressure Mr. Pence 
     to betray the Nation's democracy. Belief in this 
     antidemocratic nonsense spurred the January 6 mob, which 
     infamously chanted, ``Hang Mike Pence.''

  The Post editorial continued:

       Americans went most of their history without having to 
     worry seriously about arcane electoral college procedures. 
     Even in closely fought, acrimonious presidential elections, 
     losing candidates accepted their defeats with grace rather 
     than seeking the vulnerabilities in the law to exploit. The 
     country no longer has that luxury. Congress should have no 
     higher priority than fixing the electoral college process.

  The recommendations that are coming out of this bipartisan group 
would do just that--fix the Electoral Count Act.
  I want to thank the work of the American Law Institute, which 
convened a bipartisan working group to consider possible ECA reforms. 
In particular, I want to thank cochairs Bob Bauer and Jack Goldsmith 
for their contributions to our efforts. I also want to thank the staff 
at Protect Democracy for their suggestions and work here.
  Our legislation aims to ensure that Congress can accurately and 
correctly tally the electoral votes cast by the States, which should be 
consistent with each State's popular vote for President and Vice 
President of the United States. Our legislation clarifies some of the 
ambiguities in terms of the appropriate State and Federal roles in 
selecting the next President and Vice President of the United States as 
set forth in the U.S. Constitution.
  In our constitutional system, election law, like many other areas of 
law, involves shared powers between the Federal Government on the one 
hand and State and local governments on the other. Article I, section 4 
of the Constitution provides:

       The Times, Places, and Manner of holding elections for 
     Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each 
     State by the Legislature thereof.

  That clause of the Constitution continues by concluding:

       But the Congress may at any time [by law] make or alter 
     such Regulations.

  We have the power here, and that is what the Electoral Count Act is 
about.
  Article II, section 1 of the Constitution provides:

       Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature 
     thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to the whole 
     Number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may 
     be entitled in the Congress.

  The Constitution also provides:

       The Congress may determine the Time of choosing of the 
     Electors, and the Day on which they shall give their Votes; 
     which Day shall be the same throughout the United States.

  The 12th Amendment to the Constitution, ratified in 1804, sets out a 
framework for Congress to tally and count the electoral votes from the 
States. Congress later passed the Electoral Count Act, the ECA, in 
1887, in the aftermath of a contested Hayes-Tilden Presidential 
election of 1876 in which States sent competing slates of electors to 
Congress.
  Our legislation takes several key steps to modernize the ECA and 
reduce the opportunity for constitutional mischief when it comes to 
Congress properly counting the electoral votes of the States.
  First, the legislation helps to make it easier for Congress to 
identify a single, conclusive slate of electors from each State. The 
legislation requires each State's Governor as responsible for 
submitting the certificate of ascertainment identifying that State's 
electors. A State may designate another individual besides the Governor 
to carry out this function, such as the Secretary of State, if such an 
individual is named before the election day itself.
  Again, the State executive official reporting their electoral votes 
to Congress must do such ``under and in pursuance of the laws of such 
State providing for such ascertainment enacted prior to election day.''
  Our legislation, therefore, seeks to avoid circumstances in which a 
State attempts to change the rules after election day due to political 
pressure that may arise if a particular favored candidate loses the 
election.
  Congress could not accept a slate of electors from an official not 
authorized to do so by State law enacted prior to election day. Our 
legislation provides that States following these rules will have their 
appointments of electors treated as conclusive by Congress subject to 
any subsequent State or Federal judicial relief granted prior to the 
date of the meeting of electors.
  Our legislation states that the determination of the Federal courts 
shall be conclusive on questions arising under the Constitution or laws 
of the United States.
  Second, the legislation modernizes the ``failed election'' language 
in the ECA to specify that a State could modify its period of voting on 
election day only as necessitated by ``extraordinary

[[Page S3601]]

and catastrophic'' events ``as provided under the laws of the State 
enacted prior to [the election day].''
  This provision makes it clear, if a State legislature tries to 
override the popular vote in their State, that that would not be 
allowed.
  Third, the legislation provides for the expedited judicial review of 
certain claims relating to a State's certificate identifying its 
electors. We have limited this special judicial review in our 
legislation to only be available to the aggrieved Presidential 
candidates. This special procedure allows for challenges made under 
Federal law and the U.S. Constitution to be resolved more efficiently 
by using a special three-judge panel with a direct and timely appeal to 
the U.S. Supreme Court.
  Fourth, the legislation makes clear that the Vice President has a 
purely ministerial role in the joint session of Congress to count the 
States' electoral votes. In particular, our legislation states that the 
Vice President does not have the power to solely determine, accept, 
reject, or otherwise adjudicate disputes over electors. That 
specifically includes objections over the proper list of electors, the 
validity of electors, or the votes of the electors.
  President Trump pressured the Vice President to use this illegal 
method in order to overturn the 2020 election results. Ultimately, this 
effort was rejected by Vice President Pence, in his capacity as 
President of the Senate, as he presided over the January 6, 2021, joint 
session.
  Fifth, our legislation increases the threshold needed to lodge an 
objection to electors from one Senator and one Representative to one-
fifth of the duly chosen and sworn Members of both the House and the 
Senate. Similarly, article I, section 5 of the Constitution provides 
``the Yeas and Nays of the Members of either House on any question 
shall, at the Desire of one fifth of those present, be entered on the 
Journal.''
  This will reduce the risk and likelihood of frivolous objections 
being lodged, which requires a lengthy debate and vote in the separate 
Houses. The House has to vote separately; the Senate has to vote 
separately; and it takes a lot of time. For example, on January 6, 
2021, the Senate voted to reject, by a vote of 6 to 93, the objection 
against the electors of Arizona and voted 7 to 92 on the objections 
raised as to the electors from Pennsylvania.
  Sixth, our legislation clarifies that, if electors are not lawfully 
appointed or if an objection is sustained by Congress rejecting 
electors as not lawfully appointed, those electors would not be 
included in the denominator for determining the majority of the whole 
number of electors appointed.
  That means we can reach a decision on the day that we count the 
votes.
  The main focus of our work over the past 6 months has been on this 
sorely needed reform in the ECA, but our working group came up with a 
number of bipartisan reforms on some other matters related to 
elections.
  The Presidential Transition Improvement Act would help promote the 
orderly transfer of power between Presidential administrations. As we 
saw in 2020, the failure of a timely ascertainment of the winner by the 
Administrator of the U.S. General Services Administration and the 
uncooperative attitude of the Trump administration led to a delay in 
providing transition resources to the incoming Biden administration. 
This legislation provides clearer guidelines for eligible candidates 
for President and Vice President to receive Federal resources to 
support their transitions, including allowing more than one candidate 
to receive these resources during the time period when the outcome of 
an election is in reasonable doubt.
  The Postal Service Election Improvement Act seeks to improve the 
handling of mail-in ballots by the U.S. Postal Service and provides 
guidance and best practices to the States to improve their mail-in 
ballot processes if State law allows.
  The Election Assistance Commission Reauthorization Act would 
reauthorize the Election Assistance Commission for 5 years. The EAC 
administers grants to States and develops nonbinding guidance and best 
practices for election officials in various areas, including cyber 
security, election audits, and voting accessibility.
  What this legislation does not include is any substantive provision 
to strengthen voting rights in this country, which is desperately 
needed, and I am sorely disappointed by that omission. Our Nation has a 
long history of bipartisan work on voting rights issues. I repeatedly 
raised voting rights issues with our larger group as well as with our 
smaller subgroup on voting practices.

  Let me take a moment to remind my colleagues of our voting rights 
history.
  The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was approved by a broad bipartisan vote 
of 328 to 74 in the House and by a vote of 79 to 18 in the Senate, and 
Congress had a long bipartisan track record of clarifying its intent in 
response to restrictive Supreme Court decisions--that is, until 
recently.
  In 1982, Congress amended section 2 of the Voting Rights Act after 
the Mobile v. Bolden decision in which the Supreme Court interpreted 
section 2 as prohibiting only purposeful discrimination. That was very 
restrictive, making the Voting Rights Act much less effective. Congress 
responded to that decision by clarifying that section 2 explicitly bans 
any voting practice that had a discriminatory result irrespective of 
whether the practice was enacted or operated for a discriminatory 
purpose. The 1982 amendments--these are the amendments that corrected 
the Supreme Court's restricted decision--passed the House by a vote of 
389 to 24 and the Senate by a vote of 85 to 8. They were signed into 
law by President Reagan, a bipartisan action.
  Over 20 years later, Congress acted to address two Supreme Court 
rulings to clarify congressional intent regarding section 5 of the 
Voting Rights Act. This reauthorization passed 390 to 33 in the House 
and 98 to 0 in the Senate. It was signed into law by President George 
W. Bush--again, a bipartisan action.
  So, after the Supreme Court's decision in Shelby County v. Holder in 
2013 and after Brnovich in 2021, Congress should have acted to clarify 
the intent of the Voting Rights Act, but it didn't, and now we are 
faced today with totally unnecessary partisan gridlock on voting 
rights. We saw this gridlock play out this January when the Senate 
refused to even take up and debate the Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis 
Act.
  Let me mention one section of the VRA in particular. Section 2 of the 
Voting Rights Act protects against discriminatory voting laws. It 
prohibits any jurisdiction from implementing a ``voting qualification 
or prerequisite to voting, or standard, practice, or procedure . . . in 
a manner which results in a denial or abridgement of the right . . . to 
vote on account of race,'' color, or language minority status.
  For nearly 40 years, case law has interpreted section 2 to combat 
racial discrimination without partisan favor. Prior to the Brnovich 
case, the Supreme Court and several circuit courts had adopted a 
standard to ensure the effective implementation of these provisions 
consistent with the text and purpose of the Act as amended in 1982.
  The Brnovich decision deviated from congressional intent behind 
section 2. The Court adopted an unduly narrow reading of section 2 and 
went beyond the statutory interpretation by courts for decades by 
outlining five new guideposts. The decision is not tethered to the 
statutory text and is inconsistent with the statute's purpose and 
historical usage.
  It wasn't the first time the Court narrowed our law, but in previous 
efforts, we came together, Democrats and Republicans, to make sure that 
the Voting Rights Act was effective. So I am disappointed that we could 
not make progress in our working group to address the needed fix to 
section 2.
  We should have also looked at the issue of the right of private 
action. Since the Voting Rights Act's enactment in 1965, Congress has 
intended that voters be able to sue directly to enforce the Voting 
Rights Act rather than depend entirely upon the U.S. Department of 
Justice, which has finite resources to protect voting rights.
  I want to thank my colleague Senator Murkowski for consistently 
raising this issue.
  The Voting Rights Act's private right of action is settled law as 
Congress has repeatedly noted in its Voting Rights Act's amendments.
  Even though the private right of action is clear and settled law, our 
group should have removed any ambiguity about its intent by proposing 
language making it more explicit the statute's existing right for 
private action. Just

[[Page S3602]]

as we resolved ambiguities in the ECA and its potential 
misinterpretation, we should have done the same with this critical 
right of private action under the Voting Rights Act--a missed 
opportunity.
  As a recent report from the Brennan Center points out, State 
legislatures have been working to make it harder to vote after the 2020 
elections, even after witnessing record turnout during the pandemic. 
The Brennan Center wrote that in 2022:

       [S]tate lawmakers, who spent 2021 passing laws that made it 
     harder to vote, have focused more intently on election 
     interference, passing nine laws that could lead to tampering 
     with how elections are run and how results are determined.
       Election interference laws do two primary things. They open 
     the door to partisan interference in elections, or they 
     threaten the people and processes that make elections work. 
     In many cases, these efforts are being justified as measures 
     to combat baseless claims of widespread voter fraud and a 
     stolen 2020 election.

  The Brennan Center noted that in many of these same State 
legislatures, lawmakers have continued to introduce or enact laws that 
restrict access to the vote. Legislation is categorized as restrictive 
if it would make it harder for eligible Americans to register, stay on 
the rolls, and/or to vote as compared to existing State law.
  Free and fair elections are fundamental to who we are as a nation. 
For this reason, I strongly support the bipartisan working group's 
proposal to reform and modernize the ECA. As we saw in the 2020 
elections, different interpretations of the Electoral Count Act can 
lead down a dangerous path to another January 6-style insurrection, 
when former President Donald Trump and his enablers attempted to 
overturn a free and fair election won by President Joe Biden.
  Congress's work will not be complete when we pass this bipartisan 
proposal. We still must take up and pass voting rights legislation in 
order to safeguard the right to vote, which should be a right 
guaranteed to all Americans, regardless of their race, wealth, or 
social status.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Hickenlooper). The Senator from Maryland.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 1376 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 1376

 Marking the 5-year anniversary of the devastation of Puerto Rico and 
          the United States Virgin Islands by Hurricane Maria.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 20, 2022

   Ms. Velazquez (for herself, Mr. Torres of New York, Mr. Garcia of 
   Illinois, Mr. Auchincloss, Mr. Soto, Ms. Moore of Wisconsin, Mrs. 
    Demings, Ms. Adams, and Mr. Espaillat) submitted the following 
  resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Marking the 5-year anniversary of the devastation of Puerto Rico and 
          the United States Virgin Islands by Hurricane Maria.

Whereas, on September 20, 2017, Hurricane Maria made landfall in Puerto Rico;
Whereas Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands were still recovering 
        from a direct hit by Hurricane Irma when Hurricane Maria made landfall 
        just 14 days later;
Whereas, on September 20, 2022, the people of Puerto Rico and the United States 
        Virgin Islands living on the islands, as well as those living in the 
        mainland United States, will commemorate the 5-year anniversary of 
        Hurricane Maria;
Whereas, after the Great Galveston Hurricane of 1900, Hurricane Maria is the 
        second deadliest storm recorded in United States history;
Whereas the people of Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands living in 
        both the mainland United States and on the islands of Puerto Rico and 
        the United States Virgin Islands have shown an incredible and resilient 
        spirit in rebuilding after their record losses;
Whereas Puerto Rico faced one of the longest blackouts in United States history, 
        during which millions of residents were left without power and basic 
        services for nearly a year, triggering crises of physical and mental 
        health, migration, housing, and infrastructure;
Whereas, 5 years since Hurricane Maria made landfall in Puerto Rico, the 
        electrical grid in Puerto Rico remains unreliable, leaving millions of 
        people without a secure source of power as they suffer intermittent 
        brownouts and blackouts;
Whereas, due to the impacts of Hurricanes Maria and Irma, thousands of people in 
        Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands still have blue tarps 
        over their roofs;
Whereas, as a result of Hurricane Maria, hundreds of thousands of Puerto Ricans 
        were uprooted, and some Puerto Ricans have relocated to the mainland 
        United States;
Whereas, due to unaddressed damage to homes in Puerto Rico, hundreds of Puerto 
        Ricans displaced by Hurricane Maria continue to need housing assistance 
        from the territorial government and the Federal Government;
Whereas the economic health of Puerto Rico continues to waiver as the 
        preexisting debt crisis was exacerbated by the impact of Hurricane 
        Maria;
Whereas Hurricane Maria is the third most costly tropical cyclone in United 
        States history, with damages estimated at $107,100,000,000;
Whereas the Federal Government has allocated approximately $77,000,000,000 in 
        disaster-relief funding to help the people of Puerto Rico and the United 
        States Virgin Islands rebuild from other disasters that have impacted 
        the islands since Hurricane Maria;
Whereas, in Puerto Rico, the official death toll from Hurricane Maria stands at 
        2,975 victims, although some academic estimates place the toll at 4,645;
Whereas many of the underlying vulnerabilities contributing to the massive death 
        toll in Puerto Rico are still present, including an underfunded 
        healthcare system and a shortage of medical physicians and specialists;
Whereas the residents of Vieques, Puerto Rico, which number more than 8,000, 
        lost the primary hospital and do not have an adequate and comprehensive 
        healthcare facility;
Whereas, in a September 2020 report, the Office of the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Homeland Security found that the Federal Emergency and 
        Management Agency (in this preamble referred to as ``FEMA'') mismanaged 
        the distribution of commodities in response to Hurricanes Irma and Maria 
        in Puerto Rico;
Whereas FEMA lost visibility of approximately 38 percent of its commodity 
        shipments to Puerto Rico, worth an estimated $257,000,000;
Whereas, in an April 2021 report, the Office of the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development found that the 
        administration of President Donald Trump created bureaucratic hurdles 
        that delayed approximately $20,000,000,000 in hurricane disaster 
        recovery and mitigation funds to Puerto Rico;
Whereas Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands continue to battle with 
        climate change, which has intensified tropical cyclones, rising 
        temperatures, coastal erosion, droughts, and flash floods, among other 
        climate events;
Whereas Puerto Rico continues to address and respond to other disasters, 
        including the earthquakes of 2020 and the COVID-19 pandemic;
Whereas millions of Puerto Ricans and Virgin Islanders still grapple with the 
        physical, emotional, and economic damages caused by Hurricanes Maria and 
        Irma; and
Whereas 5 years after Hurricane Maria, Puerto Rico again faces devastation 
        following the landfall of Hurricane Fiona, leaving the over 3,000,000 
        residents of the island without power for multiple days, causing severe 
        flooding that has destroyed several structures, and exacerbating 
        conditions with the continuously fractured infrastructure and fragile 
        healthcare system in Puerto Rico: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
            (1) remains steadfast in its commitment to the people of 
        Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands to assist in 
        restoring the islands to their full potential; and
            (2) resolutely assures that it will not abandon the plight 
        of--
                    (A) the millions of citizens of the United States 
                living in Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin 
                Islands; and
                    (B) the citizens of the United States who have 
                relocated from Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin 
                Islands to the mainland United States in the aftermath 
                of Hurricane Maria.
                                 <all>
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 151 (Tuesday, September 20, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4831-S4832]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE SENATE THAT VIOLENCE AND THREATS OF 
 VIOLENCE AGAINST THE EMPLOYEES OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
                ARE UNACCEPTABLE AND SHOULD BE CONDEMNED

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I rise today to condemn the violence and 
threats of violence against the men and women of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation.
  I take these threats seriously. This July 1, I chaired the Judiciary 
Committee hearing on law enforcement officer safety and the threats our 
law enforcement officers are facing. I have repeatedly made clear that 
violence against law enforcement is never--never--acceptable no matter 
what ideology motivates it, but here is the reality.
  In the past month, following the FBI's execution of a search warrant 
at Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort, the FBI has faced a flood of 
threats against its employees and its facilities, and these threats 
have been egged on by the former President and his allies.

[[Page S4832]]

  The men and women of the Federal Bureau of Investigation literally 
put their lives on the line every day to keep all of us safe. They put 
themselves in harm's way to stop armed criminals, drug traffickers, 
terrorist organizations, and others who threaten our communities. They 
serve on the frontlines of the opioid epidemic and investigate and hold 
accountable those who traffic illegal opioids and who illegally 
prescribe pharmaceutical opioids. They investigate crimes against 
children and human trafficking--some of the most heinous crimes 
imaginable. They work day in and day out to combat international and 
domestic terrorism, and they carry out judicially issued search 
warrants every day. That is part of their job and an important role 
that they play in our justice system.
  Unfortunately, ever since the August 8 Mar-a-Lago search, their 
dedication has been repaid with a flood of baseless attacks and violent 
threats. Attacking the FBI for his own political advantage is nothing 
new for the former President, but the attacks haven't stopped with him. 
His allies and followers have spewed anti-FBI vitriol online and across 
the airwaves. In recent weeks, there have been calls from Republican 
Members of Congress to ``destroy'' and ``defund'' the FBI. There have 
been calls from Republican congressional candidates to ``gut'' the FBI 
``like a fish'' and ``shoot FBI, IRS, ATF, and all other feds on 
sight.'' So it is no surprise that such outrageous and irresponsible 
rhetoric coincides with a stunning increase in violent threats against 
the FBI.
  Last month, the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security issued a 
joint intelligence bulletin detailing an increase in violent threats 
and acts of violence against Federal law enforcement officials 
following the August 8 Mar-a-Lago search. These include threats to 
place a ``dirty bomb'' outside of the FBI headquarters and online calls 
for civil war and armed rebellion.
  On August 11, a man wearing body armor--armed with an AR-15 assault 
rifle and a nail gun--attempted to breach the FBI's Cincinnati field 
office. On August 16, another man was indicted for threatening to 
murder everyone at the FBI, from Director Wray to the custodial staff. 
On August 25, a man jumped the fence at FBI's Chicago field office but, 
thankfully, was detained and taken to a local hospital for evaluation 
before he could hurt anyone.
  In response to the joint intelligence bulletin and these incidents, I 
asked the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security to have a private 
briefing with Members of the Senate's Judiciary and Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs Committees last week. That briefing only added 
to my concern.
  I cannot share the specifics from this closed-door briefing, but I 
will say this: It should go without saying that the men and women of 
the FBI risk their lives every day on our behalf, but the increase in 
threats to their personal safety since the August 8 Mar-a-Lago search 
warrant is shocking. Beyond the direct threats and violence, there are 
also rising concerns about the public spread of personal information 
about the FBI's employees and families--a practice known as doxing. I 
fear the situation may get worse.
  Last Thursday, former President Trump kept up his threatening 
rhetoric against these law enforcement officers. He said that if he 
were indicted for his actions, ``I think you'd have problems in this 
country the likes of which, perhaps, we've never seen before. I don't 
think the people of the United States would stand for it.'' That is 
exactly the kind of language President Trump used after he lost the 
2020 election to incite the January 6 attack here at the Capitol.
  As I have said many times, political violence and threats of violence 
in the furtherance of any cause--any cause--is unacceptable. It is time 
for the Senate to stand up and support the men and women of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation who have been threatened and attacked for 
simply doing their jobs and working to protect America. Let's condemn 
these baseless attacks on the men and women of the FBI and the 
despicable political game they represent.
  Mr. President, as if in legislative session, I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate proceed to the consideration of S. Res. 775, submitted 
earlier today.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will report the 
resolution by title.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A resolution (S. Res. 775) expressing the sense of the 
     Senate that violence and threats of violence against the 
     employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation are 
     unacceptable and should be condemned.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
resolution.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and that the 
motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with 
no intervening action or debate.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  The resolution (S. Res. 775) was agreed to.
  The preamble was agreed to.
  (The resolution, with its preamble, is printed in today's Record 
under ``Submitted Resolutions.'')
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this resolution which just passed without 
objection from any Member of the Senate will be a reminder to the men 
and women who serve in law enforcement, particularly in the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, that we stand behind them and that those who 
would exploit political events at the expense of the safety of these 
men and women are beyond the pale of constitutional conduct. We want to 
stand behind those who are standing for us--to protect us and our 
families.
  I thank the Senate for agreeing to this resolution. It is timely; it 
is important; and it is clear.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 2 (Tuesday, January 4, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S12-S13]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                     EXECUTIVE CALENDAR--Continued

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Hawaii.


                        Anniversary of January 6

  Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, a year ago, there was an attempted 
overthrow of American democracy right here in this building. You know, 
we spend so much time here arguing about things that are unknowable--
about the future, about our ideology, about opinions--that we have 
become accustomed to treating floor speeches in the Senate as not 
primarily about facts.
  But I was here. And by ``I was here,'' I don't mean I was here in the 
Capitol. I mean, I was right here at this desk. And so no one needs to 
characterize it

[[Page S13]]

for me or pontificate about it or tell me what I think happened. I was 
right here. It wasn't theoretical. It wasn't a debate. It was a 
physical siege on the U.S. Capitol.
  I was already angry that day. The idea that American--American--
democratically elected politicians would participate in a process so 
foul as to be worthy of our most autocratic adversaries had me in a 
sour mood. The electoral college certification is supposed to be the 
functional equivalent of a swearing-in. It is where the thing gets made 
official, but it is not like any decisions are supposed to be made that 
day. But Senators Hawley and Cruz and others, with their unlimited 
ambition, their big brains, and their supposed expertise in the 
Constitution, were dancing on the edge of overturning democracy itself.
  But I actually had no idea how bad it was, that there was an ongoing 
organized conspiracy to steal the election for real, not in a ``Russian 
hacking'' kind of a way or not in a ``too many of the people I don't 
agree with voted'' kind of way--actually overturning the whole thing.
  So no one needs to tell me how to interpret this. I was there when 
they yelled: ``Lock down, lock down.'' I was here when Mike Pence was 
ushered off the floor. I was here when Chuck Grassley and anyone else 
with a personal protection detail was rushed to safety, and the rest of 
us were just locked in here and told to stay in our seats.
  I was here when Senator Todd Young made himself ready to physically 
confront the violent traitors. I was here when we were finally moved to 
an undisclosed location and Lindsey Graham yelled at the Capitol Police 
leadership for not having a plan to handle such a moment.
  And I was here when Reverend Black pulled us together in unity. And I 
was here when all but a few of us decided enough is enough, and we were 
collectively determined to finish our work and finish the count that 
evening.
  We were perilously close to losing everything that night. And some 
did. Police officers were maimed and killed. Custodial workers and 
Senate staffers were hiding, with zero protection.
  The insurrectionists were explicit. They wanted to kill the Speaker 
of the House.
  One year later should be a simple, solemn commemoration of what 
happened and a collective, unified determination to never let anything 
like that ever happen again.
  But I am even more worried now because that moment of unity is gone, 
and, most importantly, that moment of moral clarity of collective, 
patriotic outrage is fading. It went from Republicans being apologetic 
about their President to voting to exonerate him. It went from 
Republicans being angry at him and denouncing him to voting against 
putting a bipartisan commission together to get all of the facts out.
  It went from 99 percent of the public being crystal clear about the 
moral threat to the right rewriting history and, in some cases, the 
left going along with it by telling us that some issues poll better.
  To be clear, the litmus test for both political parties is, to 
greater or lesser degrees, the extent to which one is loyal to the 
President--fair enough. That is how the modern two-party system works, 
for better or worse.
  But Donald Trump is now defining fealty to him by one thing and one 
thing only: Are you willing to install him into power regardless of the 
vote count?
  And so now every Republican politician and elected official--
secretaries of state, county election commissioners, U.S. Senate 
candidates--have to promise to put Trump above democracy itself. And 
many are doing it. They are now organizing the next coup in plain 
sight.
  Now, I don't know the economics or the psychology behind it. Maybe, 
it is ratings. Maybe, it is just the natural tendency among the 
chattering class to not want to sound too wild-eyed--that being 
unworried is what passes for savvy in this town. But everyone, 
including those who consider themselves patriots, seem so chill about 
what is going on that I am genuinely alarmed. They are installing 
loyalists across the country in order to cheat, and they are not being 
subtle about it.
  Meanwhile, the cocktail set in Washington is busy policing our tone 
and talking about Democratic overreach, and so the defining question 
this week and this year is this: Are we willing to face the challenge 
in front of us?
  Yes, there is COVID. Yes, there is climate. But democracy itself is 
at risk in a way that we haven't seen in centuries, and we are standing 
around as a country arguing about mostly nonsense.
  And I think here is the problem for all of us, and here is why this 
is so hard emotionally: If we take a moment to realize what is at 
stake, we might realize what is required. It will require Republicans 
to stand up to an autocrat. It will require Democrats to stop arguing 
amongst themselves. It will require reporters to write stories that get 
fewer clicks than whatever BS is driving the news of the day. It will 
require citizens to understand that democracy in this country is not 
what we have. It is what we do, and it is never guaranteed.
  So, this week, we commemorate the fallen. We thank everyone who came 
to democracy's defense across the country and in our great Capital 
City. But we know that this was round 1. We know that authoritarians 
rarely give up, and we know that they aren't doing their preparation 
for the next coup in hiding. They are doing it all in plain sight, and 
they must be stopped.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Nevada.

[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 1259 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 1259

 Condemning the assassination of former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo 
                 Abe and honoring his life and legacy.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 26, 2022

Mr. Chabot (for himself, Mr. Meeks, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Bera, and Mr. Smith 
of Nebraska) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to 
                    the Committee on Foreign Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Condemning the assassination of former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo 
                 Abe and honoring his life and legacy.

Whereas Shinzo Abe, a towering figure of Japan, was horrifically assassinated on 
        July 8, 2022, in the Japanese city of Nara while delivering a campaign 
        speech as part of Japan's electoral democracy;
Whereas the late former Prime Minister of Japan was born on September 21, 1954, 
        in Tokyo, Japan, the child of Yoko Abe and Shintaro Abe, and grew up in 
        Tokyo;
Whereas Shinzo Abe graduated from Seikei University in Tokyo in 1977, and 
        studied political science at the University of Southern California in 
        Los Angeles;
Whereas, after returning to Japan, Shinzo Abe won a seat in the lower house of 
        the Japanese Parliament in 1993 and was appointed Chief Cabinet 
        Secretary in 2005, before becoming Prime Minister in 2006;
Whereas September 20, 2006, Shinzo Abe was elected as President of the Liberal 
        Democratic Party (LDP) and on September 26, 2006, was inaugurated as 
        Prime Minister of Japan for the first time;
Whereas Shinzo Abe regained leadership of the LDP on September 26, 2012, and was 
        reelected as Prime Minister for a second time on December 26, 2012;
Whereas on December 24, 2014, Shinzo Abe was re-elected as Prime Minister for a 
        third term;
Whereas on November 1, 2017, Shinzo Abe was re-elected as Prime Minister for a 
        fourth term;
Whereas Shinzo Abe was the longest serving Prime Minister of post-World War II 
        Japan and leader of the LDP, holding those offices for more than 8 
        years;
Whereas Shinzo Abe was a stalwart champion of the United States-Japan alliance;
Whereas Shinzo Abe, in his capacity as Prime Minister, visited the United States 
        more than ten times to help strengthen the relationship;
Whereas, as Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe promoted peace, security, and prosperity 
        in the Indo-Pacific region and around the world;
Whereas Shinzo Abe supported the United States in many shared challenges, 
        including by sanctioning North Korea for nuclear testing, bolstering 
        multilateral cooperation with Taiwan, providing logistics support for 
        international peacekeeping missions, and conducting disaster relief 
        through Japan's Self Defense Forces;
Whereas Shinzo Abe is widely credited with creating the vision of a ``Free and 
        Open Indo-Pacific'', linking the like-minded democracies of the Indian 
        and Pacific Oceans to work together to advance prosperity and security, 
        a framework that the United States and other countries adopted as a 
        shared concept;
Whereas Shinzo Abe raised Japan's global stature through new partnerships and 
        diplomatic initiatives in Asia, the Middle East, Europe, and beyond;
Whereas Shinzo Abe advanced regional economic integration and shared prosperity 
        in the Indo-Pacific region through numerous economic initiatives;
Whereas Shinzo Abe bolstered the relationship between the United States, Japan, 
        Australia and India by initiating the Quadrilateral grouping and 
        championing ``the Quad'';
Whereas Shinzo Abe led a pivotal improvement in Japan's relations with Taiwan, 
        describing Taiwan as ``an important partner and a precious friend of 
        Japan'', and taking up a leadership role in multilateral cooperation 
        with Taiwan by cosponsoring the Global Cooperation and Training 
        Framework;
Whereas, on April 29, 2015, Shinzo Abe became the first and only Japanese Prime 
        Minister to address a joint meeting of the United States Congress;
Whereas, in his address to the joint meeting of the United States Congress, 
        Shinzo Abe described how the United States and Japan, ``Enemies that 
        fought each other so fiercely have become friends bonded in spirit'' 
        calling it ``a miracle of history'';
Whereas Shinzo Abe made lasting and historic contributions to Japan's security 
        policy, including the 2014 reinterpretation of Japan's constitution to 
        allow participation in collective self-defense, and the 2017 decision to 
        move Japan's defense spending beyond the traditional limit of 1 percent 
        of gross domestic product;
Whereas Shinzo Abe made it his priority to revitalize the Japanese economy, spur 
        growth, and make it more resilient to shocks through his economic 
        policies, known as ``Abenomics'';
Whereas Shinzo Abe championed the concept of ``Womenomics'' to include and 
        elevate more Japanese women in the workforce and to provide a place 
        where ``women could shine'';
Whereas, under Shinzo Abe's leadership, the United States and Japan completed a 
        major update of the United States-Japan bilateral defense guidelines to 
        accelerate security cooperation;
Whereas Shinzo Abe symbolically embraced the accomplishment of United States-
        Japan reconciliation by visiting Pearl Harbor with former President 
        Barack Obama and joined former President Obama in Hiroshima;
Whereas Shinzo Abe became the first head of state to meet then-President-elect 
        Donald Trump in November 2016, and went on to have more conversations 
        with President Trump than any other foreign leader;
Whereas Shinzo Abe received numerous honors and awards over the course of his 
        long and distinguished career, including the Legion of Merit award from 
        the United States in 2020 and Japan's highest honor, the Collar of the 
        Supreme Order of the Chrysanthemum, which was awarded posthumously; and
Whereas Shinzo Abe leaves behind a legacy of democratic service, sacrifice, and 
        national pride: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
            (1) condemns the heinous assassination of former Japanese 
        Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in the strongest possible terms;
            (2) extends its deepest sympathy and condolences to the 
        family of former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and to all the 
        people of Japan in this moment time of tragedy;
            (3) honors the life and legacy of former Prime Minister 
        Shinzo Abe for his commitment to--
                    (A) strengthening the United States-Japan alliance;
                    (B) safeguarding global peace and security; and
                    (C) advancing a vision for a free and open Indo-
                Pacific region; and
            (4) proclaims that--
                    (A) Shinzo Abe served the people of Japan 
                continually for nearly 40 years with an unwavering love 
                for his country;
                    (B) Shinzo Abe was instrumental in shaping modern 
                Japan and has left a clear mark on Japan's future; and
                    (C) the United States will honor the legacy of 
                Shinzo Abe with a renewed and redoubled commitment to 
                the United States-Japan alliance.
                                 <all>
Administration of Joseph R. Biden, Jr., 2022



Remarks on United States Democracy in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
September 1, 2022



My fellow Americans, please, if you have a seat, take it.

I speak to you tonight from sacred ground in America: Independence Hall in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. This is where America made its Declaration of Independence to the world more than two centuries ago with an idea, unique among nations, that in America, we're all created equal. This is where the United States Constitution was written and debated. This is where we set in motion the most extraordinary experiment of self-government the world has ever known with three simple words: "We the People." We the people.

These two documents and the ideas they embodyequality and democracyare the rock upon which this Nation is built. They are how we became the greatest nation on Earth. They are why, for more than two centuries, America has been a beacon to the world.

But, as I stand here tonight, equality and democracy are under assault. We do ourselves no favor to pretend otherwise. So tonight I have come this place where it all began to speak as plainly as I can to the Nation about the threats we face, about the power we have in our own hands to meet these threats, and about the incredible future that lies in front of us if only we choose it.

We must never forget: We, the people, are the true heirs of the American experiment that began more than two centuries ago. We, the people, have burning inside each of us the flame of liberty that was lit here at Independence Hall, a flame that lit our way through abolition, the Civil War, suffrage, the Great Depression, world wars, civil rights.

That sacred flame still burns now in our time as we build an America that is more prosperous, free, and just. That is the work of my Presidency, a mission I believe in with my whole soul.

But first, we must be honest with each other and with ourselves. Too much of what's happening in our country today is not normal. Donald Trump and the MAGA Republicans represent an extremism that threatens the very foundations of our republic.

Now, I want to be very clear[applause]very clear up front: Not every Republican, not even the majority of Republicans, are MAGA Republicans. Not every Republican embraces their extreme ideology. I know because I've been able to work with these mainstream Republicans.

But there's no question that the Republican Party today is dominated, driven, and intimidated by Donald Trump and the MAGA Republicans, and that is a threat to this country.

These are hard things. But I'm an American President, not a President of red America or blue America, but of all America. And I believe it's my dutymy dutyto level with you, to tell the truth no matter how difficult, no matter how painful.

And here, in my view, is what is true: MAGA Republicans do not respect the Constitution.

They do not believe in the rule of law. They do not recognize the will of the people.

They refuse to accept the results of a free election. And they're working right now, as I speak, in State after State to give power to decide elections in America to partisans and cronies, empowering election deniers to undermine democracy itself.

MAGA forces are determined to take this country backwards, backwards to an America where there is no right to choose, no right to privacy, no right to contraception, no right to marry who you love.

They promote authoritarian leaders, and they fan the flames of political violence that are a threat to our personal rights, to the pursuit of justice, to the rule of law, to the very soul of this country.

They look at the mob that stormed the United States Capitol on January 6brutally attacking law enforcementnot as insurrectionists who placed a dagger to the throat of our democracy, but they look at them as patriots.

And they see their MAGA failure to stop a peaceful transfer of power after the 2020 election as preparation for the 2022 and 2024 elections. They tried everything last time to nullify the votes of 81 million people. This time, they're determined to succeed in thwarting the will of the people.

That's why respected conservatives, like Federal Circuit Court Judge Michael Luttig, has called Trump and the extreme MAGA Republicans, quote, a "clear and present danger" to our democracy.

But while the threat to American democracy is real, I want to say as clearly as we can: We are not powerless in the face of these threats. We are not bystanders in this ongoing attack on democracy.

There are far more Americansfar more Americansfrom every background and belief who reject the extreme MAGA ideology than those that accept it. And, folks, it is within our power, it's in our handsyours and mineto stop the assault on American democracy.

I believe America is at an inflection point, one of those moments that determine the shape of everything that's to come after. And now America must choose: to move forward or to move backwards? To build the future or obsess about the past? To be a nation of hope and unity and optimism, or a nation of fear, division, and of darkness?

MAGA Republicans have made their choice. They embrace anger. They thrive on chaos.

They live not in the light of truth, but in the shadow of lies.

But togethertogetherwe can choose a different path. We can choose a better path: forward, to the future; a future of possibility; a future to build and dream and hope. And we're on that path, moving ahead.

I know this Nation. I know you, the American people. I know your courage. I know your hearts. And I know our history. This is a nation that honors our Constitution. We do not reject it. This is a nation that believes in the rule of law. We do not repudiate it. This is a nation that respects free and fair elections. We honor the will of the people. We do not deny it. And this is a nation that rejects violence as a political tool. We do not encourage violence.

We are still an America that believes in honesty and decency and respect for others, patriotism, liberty, justice for all, hope, possibilities. We are still, at our core, a democracy.

And yet history tells us that blind loyalty to a single leader and a willingness to engage in political violence is fatal to democracy.

For a long time, we've told ourselves that American democracy is guaranteed, but it's not.

We have to defend it, protect it, stand up for it, each and every one of us.

That's why tonight I'm asking our Nation to come together, unite behind the single purpose of defending our democracy regardless of your ideology. We're all called, by duty and conscience, to confront extremists who will put their own pursuit of power above all else.

Democrats, Independents, mainstream Republicans: We must be stronger, more determined, and more committed to saving American democracy than MAGA Republicans are to destroying American democracy.

We, the people, will not let anyone or anything tear us apart. Today, there are dangers around us we cannot allow to prevail. We hearyou've heard itmore and more talk about violence as an acceptable political tool in this country. It's not. It can never be an acceptable tool.

So I want to say this plain and simple: There is no place for political violence in America.

Period. None. Ever.

We saw law enforcement brutally attacked on January the 6th. We've seen election officials, poll workersmany of them volunteers of both partiessubjected to intimidation and death threats. Andcan you believe it?FBI agents just doing their job as directed, facing threats to their own lives from their own fellow citizens.

On top of that, there are public figurestoday, yesterday, and the day beforepredicting and all but calling for mass violence and rioting in the streets. This is inflammatory. It's dangerous. It's against the rule of law. And we, the people, must say: This is not who we are.

Ladies and gentlemen, we can't be pro-insurrectionist and pro-American. They're incompatible. We can't allow violence to be normalized in this country. It's wrong. We each have to reject political violence with all the moral clarity and conviction this Nation can muster. Now. We can't let the integrity of our elections be undermined, for that is a path to chaos.

Look, I know politics can be fierce and mean and nasty in America. I get it. I believe in the give-and-take of politics, in disagreement and debate and dissent.

We're a big, complicated country. But democracy endures only if we, the people, respect the guardrails of the republic; only if we, the people, accept the results of free and fair elections; only if we, the people, see politics not as total war, but mediation of our differences.

Democracy cannot survive when one side believes there are only two outcomes to an election: either they win or they were cheated. And that's where MAGA Republicans are today. They don't understand what every patriotic American knows: You can't love your country only when you win. It's fundamental.

American democracy only works only if we choose to respect the rule of law and the institutions that were set up in this chamber behind me, only if we respect our legitimate political differences.

I will not stand by and watchI will notthe will of the American people be overturned by wild conspiracy theories and baseless, evidence-free claims of fraud. I will not stan
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 25 (Tuesday, February 8, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Page S568]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO DAVID FERRIERO

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, it is appropriate to take a moment here in 
the Senate to recognize David Ferriero, the 10th Archivist of the 
United States. Mr. Ferriero has held the top position at the National 
Archives since 2009, overseeing the maintenance and preservation of 
critical documents like the Constitution and the Declaration of 
Independence, along with 10 million maps, 13 million pages of text, and 
tens of millions of photographs. On January 13, 2022, Mr. Ferriero 
announced his intention to retire in April.
  Prior to his nomination and confirmation to be Archivist of the 
United States, David Ferriero spent decades as a librarian and library 
administrator for some of the largest research institutions and public 
library networks. After service in the U.S. Navy during the Vietnam 
war, Mr. Ferriero worked as a librarian at the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology for over three decades. In 1996, he moved to North 
Carolina, where he served as the vice provost for library affairs at 
Duke University, where he helped to develop the Triangle Research 
Library Network to facilitate greater access to research materials and 
collaboration across universities. Later, Mr. Ferriero was appointed 
the Andrew W. Mellon director and chief executive of the research 
libraries of the New York Public Library system.
  David Ferriero was nominated by President Obama and confirmed to be 
Archivist of the United States by the Senate in November 2009. 
Throughout his tenure as the leader of the National Archives, Mr. 
Ferriero made it his goal to bring the Archives and its vast range of 
historical records into the 21st century. He focused on digitizing the 
Archives' materials and improving availability of these materials 
online so that more Americans could access and benefit from these 
primary source records. Under his leadership, the National Archives 
also embraced social media and worked hard to bring more Americans into 
the creation, organization, and maintenance of our Nation's history and 
records.
  The documents and records maintained by the National Archives reflect 
the foundation and continuing story of our democracy and our Nation. 
They outline and define the evolution of the United States, documented 
throughout the pages of history, and preserved at the Archives as 
original source material. At this critical juncture in our endless 
march toward a more perfect union, our history becomes even more 
instructive.
  Mr. Ferriero's commitment to making our Nation's archives more open 
and more available to all of us is to be commended and will be a 
hallmark of his tenure as the Archivist of the United States. I wish 
Mr. Ferriero and his wife, Gail, all the best in the next chapter of 
their lives.
  I ask unanimous consent that a profile of Mr. Ferriero, appearing in 
The Washington Post on January 13, 2022, be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

               [From the Washington Post, Jan. 13, 2022]

     David S. Ferriero, Archivist of the United States, Is Retiring

                         (By Michael E. Ruane)

       David S. Ferriero, who has been the archivist of the United 
     States for more than a decade under three presidents, is 
     planning to retire in April.
       Ferriero, 76, has been head of the National Archives and 
     Records Administration since he was appointed by President 
     Barack Obama and confirmed by the Senate in 2009.
       ``It has been the honor of a lifetime,'' Ferriero wrote in 
     a note to his staff Wednesday. ``My time here has been filled 
     with opportunities, challenges, and awesome responsibilities. 
     . . . I am humbled and awestruck and so deeply grateful--
     grateful to all of you.''
       In addition to housing national treasures such as the 
     Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and the Bill of 
     Rights, the National Archives holds 13 billion pages of text, 
     10 million maps, charts and drawings, as well as tens of 
     millions of photographs, films and other records.
       The archives is also responsible for the nation's 13 brick-
     and-mortar presidential libraries.
       Before coming to the agency, Ferriero was director of the 
     New York Public Libraries and served in top positions at the 
     libraries of the Massachusetts Institution of Technology and 
     Duke University. A native of Beverly, Mass., he served as a 
     Navy hospital corpsman during the Vietnam War.
       A self-described introvert, he is reserved and has a dry 
     sense of humor. On his watch in 2014, the National Archives 
     held its first sleepover.
       He has pushed the digitization of the archives, and he 
     embraced social media. In November, he noted in a blog post, 
     ``We know that not everyone can come to our facilities [for 
     research] and providing these records online democratizes 
     access.''
       He has also promoted the role of ``citizen archivists'' who 
     volunteer to transcribe and review historic documents online.
       ``I have met or known half of all Archivists of the United 
     States . . . and none has done better'' than Ferriero, 
     historian Michael Beschloss tweeted.
       One of the items framed in Ferriero's office is a copy of a 
     letter he wrote to President John F. Kennedy when he was in 
     high school. The letter had been found at the Kennedy 
     Presidential Library in Boston.
       The future archivist asked about the Peace Corps and 
     requested a photo of JFK.
       Later, the Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library found 
     two letters Ferriero had written to President Eisenhower as a 
     youngster, and the Lyndon B. Johnson Presidential Library 
     found one he had written to President Johnson. Ferriero had 
     them framed in his office, too.
       In 2020, the National Archives faced criticism when it 
     posted in its headquarters building an exhibit with a picture 
     that had been altered to blur out words suggesting criticism 
     of President Donald Trump.
       The large color photograph, designed to celebrate the 
     centennial of women's suffrage, showed a massive protest 
     crowd on Pennsylvania Avenue during the Women's March on Jan. 
     21, 2017, the day after Trump's inauguration. The original 
     photo had been altered to obscure some words on signs held by 
     marchers.
       A placard that proclaimed ``God Hates Trump'' had ``Trump'' 
     blotted out so that it read ``God Hates.'' A sign that read 
     ``Trump & GOP--Hands Off Women'' had the word ``Trump'' 
     blurred out.
       Less than 24 hours after Washington Post reporter Joe Heim 
     pointed out the alterations, the National Archives 
     apologized.
       ``We made a mistake,'' it said in a statement. ``As the 
     National Archives of the United States, we are and have 
     always been completely committed to preserving our archival 
     holdings, without alteration.
       ``We were wrong to alter the image,'' it said. ``We 
     apologize, and will immediately start a thorough review of 
     our exhibit policies and procedures so that this does not 
     happen again.''
       The altered picture was removed and replaced with an 
     unaltered one.
       ``Our credibility, so important to our mission, 
     understandably has been questioned.'' Ferriero wrote on his 
     blog. ``I take full responsibility for this decision and the 
     broader concerns it has raised . . . [and] pledge to restore 
     public confidence in this great institution.''
       The National Archives is headquartered in a massive 84-
     year-old granite and limestone landmark on Pennsylvania 
     Avenue in Washington's Federal Triangle. A ``temple to 
     American history.'' Ferriero called it.
       The agency also has a large, more modern complex in College 
     Park, Md.
       Deputy Archivist Debra Steidel Wall will serve as acting 
     archivist until the president nominates and the Senate 
     confirms a successor.
       ``It is not easy to leave you with our important work 
     continuing, especially initiatives to foster equity and 
     enhance the employee and customer experiences,'' Ferriero 
     told his staff. ``However, our profession is one of 
     stewardship, where despite our enduring responsibilities, we 
     are here for what amounts to a brief period of time.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 84 (Tuesday, May 17, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2540-S2541]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 ASIAN PACIFIC AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH

  Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I rise today in recognition of Asian 
Pacific American Heritage Month. This annual recognition offers the 
opportunity to celebrate the unique impact the Asian American and 
Pacific Islander community has made and continues to make in the United 
States.
  On this heritage month, we reflect on the incredible achievements of 
this minority community and honor the unique combination of traditions 
and cultures that create the rich tapestry of the Asian American 
Pacific Islander diaspora and experience. We also use this time to 
educate ourselves on the nuances of the AAPI identity and better 
understand the challenges this community faces.
  In 1977, then-Representative Frank Horton of New York introduced a 
resolution to designate the first 10 days in May as AAPI Heritage Week. 
The month of May was appropriate because of two key anniversaries that 
occurred in that month. On May 7, 1843, the first Japanese immigrants 
came to the United States.
  On May 10, 1869, the first transcontinental railroad was completed, 
largely due to the backbreaking work of Chinese laborers, some of whom 
lost their lives in the construction.
  Congress did not enact Representative Horton's initial resolution. 
The following year, however, with the persistent help of then-
Representative Norman Mineta, Congress enacted a new resolution to 
designate the 7-day period beginning on May 4 as Asian American Pacific 
Islander Heritage Week. In 1992, Congress authorized the entire month 
of May as AAPI Heritage Month, which we now celebrate.
  The presence and influence of the AAPI community in the United States 
has been growing steadily since the 19th century. The 1870 census 
classified approximately 63,000 individuals as Asian. By 1960, when the 
census allowed respondents to select their race, that number grew to 
980,000. As of 2019, there are 22.4 million AAPI individuals in 
America, 475,000 of whom call Maryland home.
  It is important to remember that the AAPI community is not a 
homogenous group. It is an incredibly diverse community, made up of a 
wide array of cultures spanning many countries and territories, which 
includes over 50 ethnicities, over 100 languages, and multiple 
religions. Each subset draws from a unique set of traditions, and we 
cannot assume they have one shared, uniform experience. We know that 
the AAPI community makes up about 7 percent of our total population, 
and this rich and diverse community has an outsized impact on every 
pillar of our society. We cannot forget the many barriers to success 
this community has overcome to reach such heights, which makes this 
community's successes all the more impressive.
  To understand the profound influence the AAPI community has, we need 
not look further than Capitol Hill. This year, we mourned the passing 
of my good friend and former colleague, Norman Mineta. A passionate 
defender of justice, talented strategist, and exemplary patriot, 
Representative Mineta dedicated his life to service as a mayor, 
Congressman, and Cabinet member. In 1941, the U.S. Government interned 
his family along with hundreds of thousands of other Japanese 
Americans. Perhaps both in spite of and because of that experience, 
Representative Mineta pursued a career as a public servant. During his 
tenure as a legislator, he cofounded and chaired the Congressional 
Asian Pacific American Caucus.
  He led the charge on the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, which directed 
the Federal Government to issue a formal apology to and compensate the 
survivors of Japanese internment. He inspired generations of Asian 
Americans to get involved in politics. We miss him, but his legacy will 
live on for years to come.
  As chairman of the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship 
Committee, I am in awe of the resilience and determination we have seen 
from AAPI small business owners over the past 2 years. In Maryland 
alone, there are 13,375 AAPI-owned businesses, many of which include 
restaurants and eateries. In fact, if you use cuisine predominance as a 
barometer of cultural impact, the Asian American influence is 
unparalleled.
  In 2021, the New York Times published a list of the 50 most exciting 
restaurants in the United States. Seventeen of the top 50 restaurants, 
or 34 percent, incorporate AAPI food or have an AAPI head chef, more 
than any other foreign cuisine. Through food, AAPI culture has become 
inextricably linked to the American identity. In my home city of 
Baltimore, a group of volunteers known as the China Collective 
organizes a pop-up market named the Charm City Market. I have watched 
as the event has grown in both attendance and footprint over the years, 
celebrating the AAPI community's diverse food and entrepreneurship 
landscape. Each year, I look forward to the market's ever-growing 
celebration and empowerment of AAPI small business owners and 
entrepreneurs.
  Asian American Pacific Islanders also played a massive role in our 
COVID-19 response, oftentimes finding themselves on the front lines as 
essential workers. Despite facing racial bias and prejudice largely 
attributed to Donald Trump's deliberately inflammatory use of the term 
``China Virus,'' the AAPI community remained a steadfast lifeline for 
Americans in need. At Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Erika Rono, 
an emergency room nurse who came to the U.S. from the Philippines in 
2014, continues to work every day through the harrowing realities of a 
hospital overrun by COVID-19 patients. Over the past 2 years, she has 
toiled day and night, putting her own life at risk, to save

[[Page S2541]]

Baltimoreans. We cannot thank her and her colleagues enough for their 
bravery.
  Despite the vital role the AAPI community plays in the U.S., they 
still endure racism and discrimination. I am broken-hearted to see an 
unprecedented increase in hate crimes against the AAPI community in 
recent years. According to a study by the Center for the Study of Hate 
and Extremism at California State University in San Bernardino, there 
was a 44-percent increase in anti-Asian American hate crimes across 16 
of the largest cities in the United States. In 2021, 81 percent of 
Asian Americans who participated in a report by Pew Research stated 
that violence against them was increasing.
  One in 4 AAPI small business owners has experienced vandalism or 
threats to their business at least once between 2020 and 2021, and one 
in five Asian Americans worries daily about potential racial threats 
and attacks. On top of this fear of retaliation, there is also concern 
in the community, as with everyone else, about contracting the virus.
  We must continue to do all that we can to preserve, protect, and 
support the AAPI community. Last year, Congress enacted and President 
Biden signed into law S. 937, the ``COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act,'' which 
formally condemns anti-Asian violence and creates pathways for the 
expedited reporting and prosecution of such abhorrent events at the 
Federal, State, and local levels. There is no place for hate in our 
society.
  Today, as I think about my late, great colleague Norm Mineta and all 
the Asian Americans who make America what it is today, I re-emphasize 
my gratitude for the AAPI community and reaffirm my commitment to 
eliminating systemic barriers to its success.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 9 (Thursday, January 13, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S198-S213]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LEGISLATIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

         PROTECTING EUROPE'S ENERGY SECURITY IMPLEMENTATION ACT

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
proceed to consideration of S. 3436, which the clerk will report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (S.3436) to require the imposition of sanctions with 
     respect to entities responsible for the planning, 
     construction, or operation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline and 
     their corporate officers and to apply congressional review 
     under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions 
     Act to the removal of sanctions relating to Nord Stream 2, 
     and for other purposes.

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from New Hampshire.


                                S. 3436

  Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President, I come to the floor today to speak in 
opposition to S. 3436, which is the Nord Stream 2's sanctions bill 
sponsored by Senator Cruz.
  I certainly share the concerns that have been expressed just a few 
minutes ago by Senator McConnell about the threat that Russia poses to 
Ukraine and to Eastern Europe and the role that Nord Stream 2 plays in 
that critical issue.
  I have been a strong and longstanding opponent of Nord Stream 2. I 
believe now what I believed at the time that I originally cosponsored 
the Nord Stream 2 sanctions bill with Senator Cruz; that the Nord 
Stream 2 Pipeline is a long-term threat to the energy security of 
Europe.
  But right now we are in a different place on this, and while Senator 
Cruz and I worked together on sanctions legislation to stop this 
pipeline, my disagreement now with Senator Cruz is in his approach to 
what we need to do to address what is right now a much more serious 
threat to Europe, to NATO, to the transatlantic alliance, and that is 
Russia's threat against Ukraine.
  And what Senator Cruz's bill would do is not stop Nord Stream 2; it 
would undermine the current diplomatic situation that is absolutely 
critical if we are going to respond to the Russian threat.
  His bill is a vote--supporting his bill would be a vote to compromise 
the transatlantic community. It is a vote that breaks the message of 
bipartisan support in the face of Russian aggression and, furthermore, 
not just bipartisan support but allied support with the United States 
and Germany and Western Europe against the threat that Russia poses to 
Ukraine and really to Eastern Germany if they take this action.
  The dynamics on Nord Stream 2 have changed since Senator Cruz and I 
fought for the passage of legislation to prevent the completion of that 
pipeline. At the time, we worked together to provide the Trump 
administration with critical tools to sanction this pipeline, and we 
did that because there were some members of the Trump administration 
who came to us and said: We need this legislation because the 
administration has not acted.
  And the fact is, 95 percent of the construction of the Nord Stream 2 
Pipeline was completed during the Trump years. Unfortunately, the Trump 
administration, even after we passed that sanctions legislation, sat on 
those sanctions.
  They waited until literally the last day of the Trump administration 
to sanction just one entity, just one entity in 4 years. And so what we 
saw is what I just said; that 95 percent of that pipeline was completed 
during the Trump years.
  Now, we are in a very different situation right now, unfortunately, 
because we are in a situation where Russia is threatening Ukraine, and 
we need to work closely with our European allies to present a united 
front against Russia.
  We have strengthened our relationship with our German allies. The 
Biden administration has restored a diplomacy-first foreign policy, 
which seeks

[[Page S199]]

to advance American policy interests through dialogue and not through 
threats.
  There is a new German coalition government in place that we are now 
engaging with. It is a government that appears to be more skeptical 
about the Nord Stream 2 Pipeline. They have paused certification of the 
pipeline and stalled its operation until at least later this year, and 
the new government has indicated that this pipeline is not just an 
economic project.
  So it is very clear that the dynamics have changed, and when the 
dynamics change on the ground, then our approach and our foreign policy 
should reflect those changes. We can't look at this legislation in 
isolation.
  This legislation that Senator Cruz is proposing that we are going to 
be voting on today is coming at a time when the administration is 
exhausting every single diplomatic avenue to deter Putin from further 
violating Ukraine's territorial integrity.
  Russia has amassed over 100,000 troops on Ukraine's border, and, of 
course, the next month or so is really going to be critical in changing 
Putin's calculation that any invasion would come with a hefty price.
  Nord Stream 2 right now presents a potential incentive for Putin to 
use against our European partners, but it is also leverage. It is 
leverage that the West can use at a pivotal moment as Russia is 
thinking about--Vladimir Putin is thinking about what he is going to do 
in Ukraine.
  So I believe we need to stop this pipeline long term, and there may 
be a time in the future when another change in our approach on the 
pipeline may be necessary. As we know, that happens with foreign 
policy. We don't live in a static world; it is dynamic, and it demands 
that we adopt our responses.
  I have joined Senator Menendez and 38 Democrats in introducing the 
Defending Ukraine Sovereignty Act of 2022, legislation that does 
reflect the reality on the ground, that would impose swift and 
crippling sanctions on Russia's economy if Putin decides to invade. It 
would provide critical additional military support to our Ukrainian 
allies, and it would strengthen support to our Eastern European allies 
in the face of Putin's attempt to look backward, not forward.
  We are not going to give Vladimir Putin and Russia the ability to 
veto who joins NATO. We saw that very clearly at the session yesterday 
with Russian and NATO officials. Russia didn't like it because they 
didn't get the answer they wanted, which was a veto over who should be 
able to join NATO.
  We are going to continue to take a strong stand with our allies in 
opposition to what Russia is doing, but we can't use yesterday's 
solutions to help us solve today's problems. The immediate threat that 
we are facing right now is the threat of a Russian invasion of Ukraine, 
and we need to do everything possible, work as closely as possible, 
show no daylight with our allies in standing up to that threat. 
Unfortunately, what Senator Cruz is proposing with the Nord Stream 2 
sanctions legislation would do exactly that. It would drive a wedge 
between us and our allies, particularly between the United States and 
Germany, at a time that we cannot afford it.
  So I intend to vote against this legislation and support Senator 
Menendez's legislation that will give us the tools we need to continue 
to address potential Russian aggression.
  I yield the floor and look forward to hearing Senator Murphy's 
comments because I know he shares the same concerns that I am 
expressing.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Connecticut.
  Mr. MURPHY. Madam President, first and foremost, let me thank Senator 
Shaheen. She has been a leader in the Senate and in our caucus on 
raising alarms about the danger of Nord Stream 2 to European security 
and Ukrainian security. I have been so glad to work with her over these 
past several years, and I am here on the floor to join her in our 
strong opposition to the legislation that is pending on the floor as we 
speak.
  If this bill passes, it won't make the Nord Stream Pipeline any less 
likely. It won't stop Russia from invading Ukraine. In fact, it will do 
the exact opposite. It will make the completion of Nord Stream more 
likely, and it will be a gift to Russia, dividing us from our European 
allies right at the moment when we need to be in solidarity with them 
in order to deter Russian aggression.
  I will try not to repeat too much of what Senator Shaheen has said, 
but let me just underscore the points she has made.
  First, the sanctions in this bill are, unfortunately, pretty 
feckless. They are feckless because they can be undone easily, within 
30 to 60 days, by the Russian Government.
  The reality is, if we don't convince our European partners to stop 
moving forward with this project, there is no amount of U.S. sanction 
that can be effective here. What we know is that even if you were to 
sanction this German-Swiss company, the German board of directors, in a 
matter of days, weeks, maybe a few months, the Russians could 
reengineer the financing and the administration of the project to keep 
it going.
  Even more interesting to me is what Senator McConnell just said. 
Senator McConnell just came to floor and said that while he supports 
Senator Cruz's proposal, he expects that the Biden administration will 
waive the sanctions. So then why are we engaging in this in the first 
place if Republicans are going to support the waiving of the sanctions? 
Because the sanctions would interrupt our negotiations with Germany, 
why pass the bill in the first place?
  So, apparently, many Republicans are supporting the Cruz bill but 
then are going to be asking the Biden administration to not implement 
it. That doesn't seem to make a lot of sense.
  The primary impact of this bill, as Senator Shaheen explained, is to 
divide us from Germany. Why is that? Because we know that the only way 
to stop Nord Stream 2 is by convincing the Germans and other Europeans 
to stop the project.
  Now, we have, for the first time since we began talking to the 
Germans about this, convinced them to press pause--the first time the 
German Government has decided to press pause through their regulatory 
agencies. They have stopped the certification of the pipeline, which, 
by the way, is built. It was 95 percent built when President Trump left 
office. He let it be constructed--95 percent built. It is now 100 
percent built.
  But the Germans have, because of American diplomacy and because of 
the threat of invasion of Ukraine from Russia, pressed pause on this 
project. It can't start until the summer or the fall, and, frankly, 
that time allows us to continue to engage with the Germans and others 
to try to convince them that this project is not in their interest.
  So think about this from the German perspective. They finally said 
yes to the United States, and the minute they say yes is the minute the 
U.S. Senate decides to sanction German citizens. That is bad diplomacy. 
It is just bad diplomacy. It is a moment at which we have to be in 
lockstep with our European partners. We need to be sending a message to 
Vladimir Putin that the United States and Europe are together and that 
we are going to deliver a crushing package of sanctions if you enter 
Ukraine any further.
  This would be a gift to Vladimir Putin because it is a signal of 
division at a moment when we need to be standing together.
  Senator Menendez has the right approach. Senator Menendez has 
proposed a bill which I think can draw support from 90 percent of this 
body that enacts a set of sanctions on Russia if Russia moves any 
farther into Ukraine beyond where they are already in eastern Ukraine 
and Crimea. That sends the right signal. That is an effective message 
of consequence rather than this proposal, which apparently is a set of 
sanctions Republicans are going to ask to be waived and divides us from 
our partners at a moment when we need to be together.

  Lastly, I want to address one particular point that I have heard 
Senator Cruz make over and over and over again in defense of his 
proposal.
  Senator Cruz says that the construction of the pipeline stopped when 
Congress passed the Nord Stream sanctions and didn't begin again until 
Joe Biden became President. I have seen that repeated in the press, and 
it just isn't true.

[[Page S200]]

  One company that was laying the pipeline backed out of the project 
when the 2019 sanctions bill was passed, but then guess what happened. 
Russia started retrofitting other ships to finish the job, and the 
minute they were permitted, construction began again--not when Joe 
Biden was President; when Donald Trump was President. The ships were 
ready in May of 2020, before Joe Biden was even nominated, and they 
started work a few months later, as soon as the Danish Government 
permitted them.
  Now, Senator Shaheen and Senator Cruz had passed a sanctions bill 
with all of our support at the end of 2019. During all of 2020, while 
the Russians were retrofitting these ships, while they were sending 
them back to Danish waters, while the permitting process was happening, 
Donald Trump didn't enact one sanction that was permitted by Congress.
  Congress passed a law at the end of 2019. In all of 2020, Donald 
Trump didn't enact a single sanction. This was the critical moment. 
This was the time in which the meat of the pipeline was being built. 
President Trump did nothing, and he paid no consequence for it. Do you 
know why? Because in 2020, Senator Cruz didn't hold up any of Donald 
Trump's State Department nominees when Trump was refusing to implement 
sanctions, when the Russians sent ships that started showing up to 
restart construction, not even when construction restarted in the fall 
of 2020--nope. During this time, all of Trump's State Department 
nominees sailed through without a single Republican objection or 
blockade.
  On Trump's last day in office, his last day, literally as he was 
packing up the Oval Office, January 19, he sanctioned one ship and the 
company that owned the ship--essentially a signal of how little he 
cared. On the day he was leaving, he sanctioned one ship and the 
company that owned the ship, but by this time, 95 percent of the 
pipeline was complete. It was too late. Then he begrudgingly hands over 
the keys to the Oval Office to Joe Biden and leaves the incoming 
President with a mess--a pipeline 95 percent built that Donald Trump 
could have stopped if he had used the sanctions he was given.
  So you can understand why some of us wonder what the motivation is 
behind Senator Cruz's extraordinary tactics now when the pipeline is 
already built. It seems that the difference between 2020 and 2021 is 
essentially that now there is a Democrat in the White House.
  This bill isn't going to help Ukraine. It is designed to hurt the 
President of the United States. Unfortunately, some--not all--not all 
but some of our Republican colleagues here have consistently put their 
desire to politically harm President Biden ahead of their desire to 
protect the Nation, holding up the confirmation of President Biden's 
nominees. It doesn't help the security of the Nation; it just increases 
the chances that the United States won't have the personnel on hand to 
deal with a crisis somewhere around the world when it develops and that 
that failure may hurt Joe Biden's approval rating. Unfortunately, I 
think that is what is going on here. Unfortunately, I think that is 
what is going on here, and I hope that my colleagues see it.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Booker). The Senator from New Hampshire.
  Mrs. SHAHEEN. Would my colleague yield for a question?
  Mr. MURPHY. I would.
  Mrs. SHAHEEN. Senator Murphy, I am really pleased--sadly pleased, but 
I think it is really appropriate that you brought up the issue about 
holding State Department nominees, because one of the things that have 
been unfortunate about Senator Cruz's approach to Nord Stream 2 in 
recent weeks has not just been his holding up of nominees but has been 
his suggestion that the change in response on my part and on others' 
who oppose Nord Stream 2 has been partisan.
  But, as you point out, during all of the Trump administration, 
Senator Cruz did not hold one nominee because of Nord Stream 2. Is that 
your understanding?
  Mr. MURPHY. That is my understanding. My understanding is that there 
may have been private advocacy or public speeches given but that there 
certainly wasn't the tactic used that had been used during 2020, which 
is extraordinary, the holding of all nominees.
  I think I would add to that that Democratic Senators have not used 
that tactic. We had huge disagreements with President Trump's policy, 
including his failure to use sanctions that were given to him by 
Congress to stop the pipeline at the moment when those sanctions would 
have been most effective, but we didn't block all of President Trump's 
Ambassadors and State Department personnel because we thought that it 
was better to have those people on hand, working to protect U.S. 
interests, than it was to have those positions vacant.
  That is the case we have been trying to make on this floor, that if 
you really care about helping Ukraine, why did Senator Cruz spend all 
of 2020 blocking the Ambassadors and State Department personnel whose 
job it would have been to help Ukraine?
  No one has been more engaged on this question and this fight than you 
have, Senator Shaheen.
  Mrs. SHAHEEN. Well, I think the other important point that we both 
made is the fact that what stopped policies and the pipeline when the 
first sanctions bill was passed was the threat of sanctions; it wasn't 
actually implementing those sanctions. In fact, it was then Russia's 
ability to come back in, retrofit ships, and do the work themselves, 
Gazprom and Russia. Russian ships did the work themselves, and 
throughout the last year of the Trump administration, they refused to 
take any action to address that. In fact, I remember being in a 
meeting--I can't remember if you were in that meeting or not--with 
Senator Cruz and some of our Republican colleagues and a member of the 
administration urging us to pass another sanctions bill because the 
administration had not acted.
  So I think it is really important, as you say, to point out that 95 
percent of that pipeline was done under the previous administration 
when Senator Cruz and our colleagues who would like to stop the 
pipeline had the opportunity to hold up his nominees to raise those 
concerns, and that did not happen. That puts us at a disadvantage today 
as we look at the threat of Nord Stream. Would you agree with that?
  Mr. MURPHY. I would.
  If you don't mind, Senator Shaheen, I will just go through the 
timeline once again because I think it is important.
  In December of 2019, Congress passed the sanctions bill that you and 
Senator Cruz championed. That stops Allseas, the private company, from 
constructing the pipeline.
  They pull back, but immediately Russia starts retrofitting their own 
ships, and we knew it. We saw it. This wasn't secret. That happens from 
the beginning of 2020, and by May of 2020, those ships are on their 
way.
  From May until October, they are caught up in permitting, but it is 
just a matter of time. Everybody knows those ships are eventually going 
to start laying down pipe.
  By October of 2020, before Joe Biden is elected President, those 
ships are back doing construction.
  In October, November, December, all throughout the end of 2020, those 
ships are back rebuilding the pipeline, such that on January 19, the 
last day of Trump's Presidency, 95 percent of the pipeline--somewhere 
around 95 percent of the pipeline--is done.
  Then literally walking out the door, Donald Trump lays down a 
sanction on one company and one ship that the company owns.
  All through 2020, there was no blockade of State Department nominees, 
no grinding to a halt of Senate nominations business to try to prompt 
the President to change his mind. All of that magically starts 
happening when Joe Biden is President, when 95 percent of the pipeline 
is done.
  I hope, Senator Shaheen--and I will let you wrap up--I hope that we 
can find a way to get on the same page here because we have been for 
much of the last several years, and you have led that effort.
  I think Senator Menendez's legislation, which is all about the right 
set of incentives and disincentives for Russian behavior, is perhaps 
the means that we can sort of elevate this above the question of who is 
President and get back to fighting for the interests of our Nation and 
the interests of our partners in Ukraine.

[[Page S201]]

  

  Mrs. SHAHEEN. Thank you, Senator Murphy. I couldn't have said 
anything better.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, just a quick observation or two about what 
my colleagues from New Hampshire and Connecticut were just speaking to, 
and that is the issue of the Nord Stream 2 Pipeline. I intend to talk 
about another subject, but as I was listening to their dialogue on that 
subject, there were a couple of things that I thought were important to 
respond to.
  They had indicated that there is a bill offered by Senator Menendez 
on their side of the aisle that they thought would get 90-plus votes 
here in the U.S. Senate. I would say to my colleagues on the Democratic 
side that Senator Cruz, as he was advocating for a vote on his 
amendment, offered that up. He offered up a vote on Menendez and a vote 
on his amendment to Menendez, and that was turned down by the Democrat 
leadership. So that was put forward as an offer by the Senator from 
Texas, Senator Cruz.
  Just to also make the point--this isn't something that is a new issue 
for him. He has been advocating on the Nord Stream 2 Pipeline for 
years. In fact, there were sanctions put in place under the previous 
administration, which I think had been quite effective.
  With respect to holding State Department nominees, sometimes around 
here, you have to get people's attention in order to get a vote on 
something. I mean, he didn't have to hold nominees in the last 
administration because they allowed for a vote. In this administration, 
that has not been the case. He has been trying for literally weeks and 
months. I happened to be here in the wee hours of the morning a few 
weeks ago on a Friday evening when this was being discussed, and we 
were waiting for some agreement between him and the Democrat leadership 
about giving him a vote on this amendment. Ultimately, when he got the 
vote on his amendment, he turned loose 40-some State Department 
nominees.
  So I think he has in this case played fairly, played by the rules in 
the Senate, and exercised the leverage he has as a U.S. Senator to 
ensure that he got a vote on an issue that is critically important, not 
only to him and I would say to this entire body but to our country and 
certainly to our allies in that region.
  There is one final point I will make. Everybody, as they were talking 
about this, was saying: Wow, you know, this is--all of a sudden, this 
issue has become a relevant one.
  Well, it has always been a relevant one. Defending and supporting 
people in Ukraine and making sure they have a democratic government 
that allows for self-rule is something that I think all of us in this 
country want to see happen.
  But I think one of the reasons it has come to a head is because last 
year--not last year but 2 years ago, the previous administration--the 
Senators from New Hampshire and Connecticut were going after Senator 
Cruz and other Republicans for not paying attention to this issue a 
long time ago.
  We have been paying attention to it for a long time, but one thing 
that has intensified that attention is the fact that the Russians now 
have tens of thousands of troops on Ukraine's border. That is a new 
issue and an issue that I think demands the attention of this body, our 
country, our government, our State Department, and the American 
military, in conjunction with our allies in that region.

  This is a critical time. It is very important that a strong message 
be sent. I am not sure why you would wait until after the Russians 
cross the border and occupy Ukraine before you do something that might 
deter that kind of bad behavior.
  I think the reason they have amassed the troops they have on the 
Ukraine border is because they perceive the change of administration, 
perhaps a different view, and, in fact, I think that buildup started in 
the spring of 2021 under this administration.
  So just to make the point that the vote we will have this afternoon 
on Senator Cruz's proposal on Nord Stream 2 has been a long time in the 
making--he has, I think, consistently worked this issue, advocated for 
this issue in a way that any Senator who is trying to get a vote around 
here would.
  I think with respect to why this issue is now particularly relevant 
in light of our national security interests is the fact that the 
Russians do have literally tens of thousands of troops sitting on 
Ukraine's border at a time when the world is a very dangerous place, 
and that region in particular faces considerable peril because of the 
neighborhood in which they live.
  So I would hope that this afternoon when this Nord Stream 2 vote 
comes up, that it will enjoy broad bipartisan support recognizing the 
value and importance of the message it sends.
  Also, I might add, because it was also pointed out by the two 
Senators who were just here, that this is something that the Ukrainian 
Government is asking us to do. They suggested this was something that 
isn't desired or wanted, and it, in fact, is. Many of us participated 
in a conference call on Christmas Eve with President Zelensky in which 
he voiced support for this. I think he and his country, his government, 
and his people realize how important it is that a message be sent to 
their neighbors and that the American Government, in concert with our 
allies in this region, send a very strong statement with respect to 
that particular issue.
  So I hope that we get a good, strong vote this afternoon and that it 
won't be a party-line vote. It is at 60, meaning it will take some 
Democrats to vote with Republicans. But I can't think of a time when 
the stakes have been higher for the people of Ukraine or, frankly, for 
that matter, for that region in its entirety.


                               Inflation

  Mr. President, I want to shift gears now, if I might. Yesterday, we 
learned that in December, inflation hit its highest level in 40 years--
40 years. Inflation reached 7 percent in December, the seventh straight 
month that inflation has been over 5 percent. Today, we discovered that 
year-over-year inflation for domestically produced goods increased even 
more, by a massive 9.7 percent.
  Americans are struggling under steep increases in grocery prices, 
fuel prices, utility prices, and the list goes on. Despite wage 
increases in 2021, American families experienced a de facto pay cut, 
with their purchasing power shrinking thanks to inflation, and there is 
apparently no end in sight.
  Given the real economic harm that American families are suffering as 
a result of this crisis, you would think the issue would be front and 
center here in Washington for Democrats, but you would be wrong. In 
fact, a lot of the time, inflation doesn't even seem to exist on 
Democrats' radar. Democrats can't be bothered to pay attention to a 
real crisis with real economic consequences for American families 
because they are too focused on their manufactured voting rights 
crisis.
  Earlier this week, President Biden traveled to Georgia, which has 
become the Democrats' poster child for the supposed assault on voting 
rights, to deliver a speech to gin up support for the Democrats' 
partisan election bill, and what a speech it was.
  In the course of his overwrought and bombastic remarks, the 
President, who once vowed to bring Americans together, managed to imply 
that half the country is racist. Never one to let the truth get in the 
way of a good story, he continued his bizarre habit of falsely claiming 
that he had been arrested in various situations. He laid out, perhaps, 
the weakest case for a voting rights crisis that you can imagine.

  The President, of course, used Georgia's thoroughly mainstream 2021 
election law as his main example. Here is what he had to say. Here is 
what the voting rights crisis amounts to:
  First, according to the President, Georgia is making it harder to 
vote by mail. Now, I am guessing he might be referring to the provision 
of the Georgia law that asks voters to write in their driver's license 
numbers on their absentee ballots. Given that almost every American in 
this country has a driver's license or some form of photo

[[Page S202]]

ID, I have got to say that it doesn't seem like an unduly burdensome 
requirement. After all, New York City and Washington, DC, are now 
requiring you to present a photo ID and proof that you have been 
vaccinated before you can enter any restaurant or public place, and 
liberals seem OK with that, but, apparently, to the President, 
Georgia's measure is Jim Crow 2.0.
  The President continues by accusing Georgia of limiting drop boxes. 
Ballot drop boxes have become a bizarre fixation of Democrats engaged 
in trying to persuade Americans that the right to vote is under attack. 
The truth is that Georgia didn't even use drop boxes until the 2020 
election and that Georgia's new election law now requires at least one 
drop box in each county is hardly a criminal attempt to restrict drop 
boxes. But let's be honest here. Even if Georgia decided to eliminate 
drop boxes entirely and return to its pre-2020 status quo, Georgians 
would still have ample opportunities to vote.
  Georgia's new law mandates a minimum of 17 days of early voting--17 
days--and Georgia provides for no-excuse absentee voting, which means 
any Georgia citizen can request an absentee ballot for any reason 
whatsoever. That, of course, is a far more generous voting policy than 
those offered by the President or the Senate Democrat leader's home 
States. The President's home State of Delaware doesn't offer no-excuse 
absentee voting, and it is just starting to offer early voting this 
year--remember, Georgia with 17 days early voting, no-excuse absentee 
voting. Similarly, the Democrat leader's home State, Senator Schumer's 
home State of New York, offers just 9 days of early voting in contrast 
to Georgia's 17, and New York--the State of New York--on their ballot, 
recently rejected a ballot measure to allow no-excuse absentee voting.
  So no-excuse absentee voting is not allowed in New York, but it is 
allowed in Georgia, with 9 days early voting in New York and 17 in 
Georgia. Yet, somehow, the President hasn't yet visited Delaware or New 
York to accuse them of making it difficult for citizens to vote. I will 
believe in Democrats' supposed commitment to protecting the vote when I 
see the Senate majority leader come to the floor and excoriate New 
Yorkers for attacking voting rights.
  Continuing on with President Biden's speech, we come to, perhaps, the 
most ridiculous example the President and Democrats have used in their 
attempt to convince Americans that voting rights are under assault, and 
here I am going to quote directly from the President's speech:

       [T]he new Georgia law actually makes it illegal--think of 
     this--I mean, it's 2020, and now '22, going into that 
     election--it makes it illegal to bring your neighbors, your 
     fellow voters food or water while they wait in line to vote. 
     . . . I mean, think about it. That's not America. That's what 
     it looks like when they suppress the right to vote.

  That is what it looks like when they suppress the right to vote? 
Really?
  I mean, I have to give President Biden credit for delivering that 
line with a straight face because that is pretty much the most absurd 
claim Democrats have made in the course of this debate. The President, 
of course, is referring to the provision of Georgia's election law that 
prohibits individuals or organizations from giving food or drinks to 
voters within 150 feet of a polling place.
  Now, just for purposes, again, of comparing and contrasting, the 
Democrat leader's home State of New York--Senator Schumer's home State 
of New York--has a similar provision preventing voters in line from 
being given anything, including food and water, whose retail value is 
in excess of $1. This is the State of New York--the State of New York. 
But people are blowing a gasket over this provision in Georgia law--the 
very provision the State of New York has in law today. I would argue, 
in most States, you can't go within a certain number of feet of a 
voting place if you are a political operative or a political 
organization. I mean, that is true in our State, and I am sure it is 
true in a lot of States around the country. The aim of those laws, of 
course, is to prevent partisan political organizations or candidates 
from exerting improper pressure on voters in line.
  Now, nothing in Georgia's law prevents partisan political 
organizations from setting up food trucks or lunch stations outside of 
the 150-foot radius and feeding voters to their hearts content--150 
feet. That is 50 yards. Of course, Georgia's law explicitly allows 
nonpartisan poll workers to make water available to voters. An election 
worker, somebody who is involved with the actual vote itself, can 
deliver water to voters if they are waiting in line. It just prevents 
political operatives and political organizations from doing that--a law 
that, again, is consistent with laws throughout the country, 
including--including--the State of New York. Yet I suppose it is 
typical of nanny-state Democrats to think Americans are incapable of 
packing themselves a snack.
  I am pretty sure--pretty sure--I have never seen a weaker case for a 
crisis. Take a look at Democrats' supposed evidence, and their case 
crumbles to dust, which, of course, raises the question of what is 
behind Democrats' manufactured crisis. Unfortunately, I think we know 
the answer. The Democrats have manufactured the supposed voting rights 
crisis in the hopes of forcing through election legislation that they 
hope will give them an advantage in future elections. More than one 
Democrat has openly admitted that Democrats want to pass a Federal 
election takeover because they think it will help their party win 
elections.
  I don't blame Democrats for running scared. Between their inflation 
crisis, their border crisis, the President's humiliating, disastrous 
retreat from Afghanistan, the November election results in Virginia, 
and the fact that just one-third of the American people approve of the 
job the President is doing, the Democrats have reason to be scared 
about their 2022 electoral prospects.


                               Filibuster

  Mr. President, instead of addressing the inflation crisis they helped 
to create or, perhaps, moving their agenda from the far left and closer 
to the center, the Democrat leaders have decided that the solution to 
improving their electoral chances is to pass a partisan Federal 
takeover of election law and to break the Senate rules to do it. 
Apparently, they don't care what damage they do to the Senate and the 
country in the process. If Democrat leaders have their way, the 
longstanding protections for the minority in the Senate and the 
millions upon millions of Americans the Senate minority represents will 
be swept away in the name of, perhaps, improving Democrats' electoral 
prospects.
  Although, I have to say, in the Washington Post Fact Checker about 
the Georgia law, which, by the way, gave the President four 
Pinocchios--four Pinocchios, which is pretty much the biggest whopper 
you can get--for his statements last year about this Georgia election 
law, they went on to say that the analysts who have looked at this--a 
lot of the analysis has been done by so-called election experts--think 
that it will expand--expand--the opportunity for people in Georgia to 
vote.
  All of this is disheartening, to say the least, because I think we 
all know that, in the end, if you are going to blow up the Senate 
rules, that that has consequences that go on for a very, very long 
time.
  There are Democrats in this Chamber today who still express, I think, 
regret for what happened in 2013, with respect to the executive 
calendar--which deals with executive branch nominees and judicial 
branch nominees, judges--because it led, in 2017, to the Republicans 
retaliating, following suit, with Supreme Court Justices.
  I don't think you can--assume for a minute that, at some point, this 
flips. If Democrats blow up the rules to do this and create, I have to 
say, a manufactured crisis in order to do it, then you are not going to 
be able to blame Republicans, because once the rules are gone, the 
rules are gone. Then we become the House of Representatives, a total 
majoritarian body with longer terms.

  That is not what the Founders intended. This place is here for a 
reason. It is here to represent the rights of the minority, the people 
who didn't win the vote, the people who might be in the minority party, 
who ought to have some say and some voice in the laws that are made 
here and the policies that are made here that are going to affect them 
and their families. I am hopeful that there are still some Democrats 
with doubts about this course of action, enough, perhaps, to block 
their leadership's partisan push.

[[Page S203]]

  In his inaugural address, the President of the United States vowed to 
be a President for all Americans. On Tuesday, he made it clear that he 
is becoming nothing more than a President for the far-left wing of the 
Democratic Party. In less than a year, he has gone from promising unity 
to sowing division. It is a sad epitaph to a Presidency that has barely 
begun.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                                S. 3436

  Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, the eyes of history are upon us today. Each 
of us will be faced with a momentous question: Can we put petty 
differences aside, and can we come together to defend our friend and 
our ally Ukraine against imminent Russian aggression?
  This isn't theoretical. Russian tanks and troops are, right now, 
massed on the Ukrainian border, and they are preparing for invasion. 
The Senate, in just a few hours, will vote on a bill that represents 
the best way to deter Putin from invading Ukraine by sanctioning the 
company that is racing to finish and make operational the Nord Stream 2 
Pipeline, which Putin desperately wants completed so that he can use it 
as a cudgel against our European allies. If we don't come together 
today, Ukraine risks getting wiped off the map altogether.
  Putin didn't just wake up one day and decide he wanted to invade 
Ukraine. He has wanted to invade Ukraine for years. He did so already 
in 2014, but he stopped short of a full invasion because he couldn't 
endanger Ukraine's energy infrastructure, which he needs to get 
Russia's natural gas to Europe. That stopped Putin from marching all 
the way to Kiev. The next year, in 2015, Putin began the Nord Stream 2 
project--to build a pipeline to go around Ukraine so that he could get 
his gas to Europe and invade Ukraine with no risk to the billions he 
relies on every year.
  Nord Stream 2, as we know and as we have heard from Republicans and 
from Democrats--literally hundreds of times over the past years on this 
floor, in committees, in briefings--Nord Stream 2 was designed to 
circumvent Ukraine. It is why the Senate has worked together for years, 
in a bipartisan manner, to stop Nord Stream 2 from coming online.

  In 2017, Congress came together and passed the Countering America's 
Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, or CAATSA, which sanctioned 
investments in Russian energy export pipelines.
  In 2019, Congress passed Protecting Europe's Energy Security Act, or 
PEESA, which sanctions Nord Stream 2 directly. I authored that bill, 
along with Democratic Senator Jeanne Shaheen.
  And, in 2021, Congress expanded those sanctions in the Protecting 
Europe's Energy Security Clarification Act. Again, I authored that 
bill, along with Democratic Senator Jeanne Shaheen.
  For the next several hours, this body will revisit and debate this 
issue once again. We will revisit our successes from 2019 to 2021 in 
using targeted sanctions to end construction of the pipeline.
  When President Trump signed our bipartisan sanctions into law, Putin 
stopped construction of the pipeline literally 15 minutes before the 
law became effective. Sanctions worked. They succeeded. Together, we 
won a bipartisan foreign policy and national security victory.
  But we will also revisit in this debate the catastrophic decision 
President Biden made in May of this year to waive those sanctions. The 
sanctions that had worked, the sanctions that were successful, 
President Biden waived them nonetheless.
  When this debate is over, each of us will have to decide whether he 
or she will vote to finally and definitively put an end to this 
pipeline through mandatory sanctions.
  Our Ukrainian allies are crying out for us to do so. Ukraine's 
President and Prime Minister and Speaker of the Parliament have all 
explicitly and passionately done so in recent days. Ukraine's Prime 
Minister said last week that Nord Stream 2 is ``no less an existential 
threat to [Ukraine's] security & democracy than Russian troops on our 
border.'' That is the Prime Minister of Ukraine begging this body, the 
U.S. Senate, to help him.
  Just this week, a public letter from leaders in Ukrainian civil 
society said--and I want to quote this at length. They said:

       Since late October 2021, Russia has amassed more than 
     120,000 troops close to the Ukrainian border along with the 
     logistical support for a major new offensive. This menacing 
     build-up had been accompanied by increasing belligerent 
     rhetoric from senior Russian officials. We believe the green 
     light given to the Nord Stream 2 pipeline in May 2021 served 
     as one of the key triggers for the current crisis and must be 
     urgently revised.

  In ordinary times, that open letter from Ukrainian civil society 
would resonate with both Democrats and Republicans. This is a plea for 
help.
  Opponents of our legislation are clutching at pretexts to avoid doing 
what we have done many times before, and I want to address those 
pretexts one at a time.
  One argument we have heard again and again is that imposing sanctions 
on Nord Stream 2 AG, the Gazprom-owned cutout that runs Nord Stream 2, 
would shatter European unity. That is an argument that is being 
repeated by the White House repeatedly--that this is all about 
transatlantic unity; we should give Putin its pipeline because of 
transatlantic unity.
  I urge every Senator to ask a simple question: What unity and with 
whom?
  In January, the European Parliament voted to condemn and stop the 
Nord Stream 2 Pipeline. The vote was 581 to 50--581 to 50. If you care 
about transatlantic unity, let me suggest that we side with the 581 and 
not the 50. The Biden White House's argument is literally: Go with the 
50 in the name of transatlantic unity.
  I don't know how you stand up and make that argument with a straight 
face--581 to 50.
  In August of 2021, the chairs of the Foreign Affairs Committees in 
nine countries opposed explicitly the Nord Stream 2 U.S.-German 
agreement--the Biden agreement--to allow the completion of Nord Stream 
2. Among those countries that explicitly opposed that agreement: 
Estonia, the Czech Republic, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, 
Ukraine, and the United Kingdom. Are those countries Europe? Do we care 
about transatlantic unity with those countries that are begging us to 
find the courage to stand up to Vladimir Putin?
  When President Biden made his deal to allow the pipeline to go 
through anyway, the Foreign Ministers of Ukraine and Poland issued a 
remarkable joint statement declaring that the decision President Biden 
made to surrender to Putin, that it created an immediate ``security 
crisis'' for Europe. They told us then--Ukraine and Poland both told us 
then--that, as a result of waiving sanctions, we are going to see 
Russian troops. They were right. It is almost as if they understand 
their neighbor. It is almost as if they understand Putin's desire to 
reassemble the Soviet Union. It is almost as if they believe Vladimir 
Putin when he said that he believed the greatest geopolitical disaster 
of the 20th century was the dissolution of the Soviet Union, and he 
wants to bring it back together by force, which I would note would be a 
grave national security threat to the United States.

  Now, some will say, when they say European unity, they really mean 
unity with Germany. Indeed, I have heard Members on this floor say: 
Listen, I am just not prepared to sanction Germany.
  This bill doesn't sanction Germany. It doesn't sanction the German 
Government. It doesn't sanction the German company. It sanctions Nord 
Stream 2 AG, which is wholly owned and controlled by Gazprom. This is 
sanctioning a Russian cutout because this pipeline is a tool for 
Putin's aggression in Europe.
  And even when it comes to unity in Germany, what they really mean is 
unity with Angela Merkel, and I will concede that. Angela Merkel wants 
this pipeline. I don't fully understand why, but she does. But Angela 
Merkel is no longer the Chancellor of Germany. Indeed, the German 
people went

[[Page S204]]

to the polls, and they voted her party out of office. So one would 
think from the United States, to the extent we are concerned about 
standing with an ally, we should be concerned about the current 
Government of Germany, not the former government, and we should respect 
the views of the German people.
  Now, the current Government of Germany is hopelessly fractured on 
Nord Stream 2. The Greens, who are part of this coalition government, 
passionately oppose Nord Stream 2. Vocally, repeatedly they have 
condemned Nord Stream 2, and they are an integral part of this German 
Government. But just a few hours ago, the German Defense Minister, on 
the other side, said Nord Stream 2 is off the table. They are not 
willing to do anything to stop Nord Stream 2. And the German Chancellor 
has said the same, declaring that he seeks a positive reset with Putin. 
This is the same Putin who has tanks on the border of Ukraine, and he 
is preparing to invade.
  Another argument that we will hear is that sanctions should be kept 
in our pockets. We should reserve them for use later in the case of a 
Russian invasion. I would note, this is not what our Ukrainian allies 
advocate, and I have trouble believing anyone in this Chamber actually 
takes this argument seriously, nor should they. Putin doesn't.
  Putin believes that once he brings Nord Stream 2 online, and once he 
has changed the region through invasion, that no one will have the will 
to impose sanctions. And I would note, he is not crazy to believe that.
  When the Biden administration first capitulated to Russia on Nord 
Stream 2, the Biden administration and the German Government made a 
promise. They said if--if, if--Russia uses energy for energy blackmail, 
then we will stop the pipeline. They beat their chest with that 
promise. They were quite bold about it. I have had some Members of the 
Senate say: Well, we have got really strong promises from Germany now.
  Well, what has happened since then? Russia has nakedly and 
unequivocally used energy for energy blackmail. Energy prices have 
skyrocketed in Europe, and Putin is openly boasting, he is laughing and 
saying: Well, turn Nord Stream 2 on and your energy prices will go 
down.
  He is not hiding it. He is not pretending. He did exactly what the 
Biden White House and the German Government said: If you do x, we will 
stop it.
  He did it openly, brazenly, laughingly, and absolutely nothing 
happened--zero, crickets.
  Mr. President, I ask you, as a reasonable man, if the German 
Government and the Biden White House were unwilling to impose sanctions 
when Putin immediately triggered what they said was their redline, in 
what universe would the Biden White House or the German Government have 
greater resolve once millions of Germans are dependent on Russian 
natural gas from Nord Stream 2 to heat their homes when it is literally 
stopping the Germans from freezing to death? Because that, if the 
Ukrainian pipeline is shut down, becomes the only viable source of 
heat. Do we really think they are going to have greater courage then 
than they have had so far? Nobody does. Putin doesn't.
  It is important to understand that the debate before this Chamber is, 
Do we impose sanctions before an invasion in order to stop the invasion 
or do we threaten sanctions after an invasion is done?
  The bill that my colleague Senator Menendez is pushing would do the 
latter. It would impose sanctions after an invasion is completed. I 
don't think Putin believes those sanctions would ever be imposed. But I 
can tell you, Ukrainian President Zelensky has very expressly addressed 
this issue. Here is what he said: ``Only if the sanctions are applied 
prior to the armed conflict would they become a prevention mechanism 
for any possible escalation.'' That is the President of Ukraine begging 
the Members of this Senate to vote in favor of the bill on the floor 
today.
  Today will be one of our very last chances to stop Nord Stream 2 and 
to stop an imminent Russian invasion of Ukraine.
  Just a few minutes ago, two of my colleagues, Senator Murphy and 
Senator Shaheen, had a colloquy in which they explained why they have 
flipped their positions. They and every other Democrat in this Chamber 
have voted for sanctions on Nord Stream 2 not once but twice. Every 
Democrat voted in support of my bipartisan sanctions on Nord Stream 2. 
Only two things have changed since all of the Democrats voted in favor 
of these sanctions: No. 1, the occupant of the White House, who now has 
a ``D'' behind his name instead of an ``R.''
  The White House is furiously lobbying Democrats, asking Democrats to 
stand with their party--sadly, at the expense of our allies, at the 
expense of Europe, and at the expense of U.S. national security.
  On the merits, this should be a very easy vote. And I would suggest, 
if Joe Biden were not President, if Donald Trump were sitting in the 
Oval Office today, every single Democrat in this Chamber would vote for 
these sanctions--all of them--as they did twice when Donald Trump was 
sitting in the Oval Office.
  The other thing that has changed, by the way, is the Russian troops 
on the border of Ukraine, which is exactly what the Ukrainians and the 
Poles told us would happen when Biden waived these sanctions.
  Those are the two things that have changed.
  I have to say, my colleagues Senators Murphy and Shaheen had a very 
odd colloquy because they decided to go after me personally instead of 
focusing on the merits of the issue. In particular, they said: You 
know, when Trump was President, Senator Cruz didn't hold his State 
Department nominees over Nord Stream 2, and Trump didn't impose 
sanctions over Nord Stream 2.
  Now, I recognize in politics sometimes, in the heat of the moment, 
you say things; you don't entirely think through them. But even in the 
annals of bad arguments, that is a singularly absurd argument. It is 
true I didn't hold the State Department nominees over Nord Stream 2. It 
is true Trump didn't impose sanctions. Why? Because we stopped Nord 
Stream 2, because we were successful.
  When I authored the bipartisan sanctions, there were significant 
elements of the Trump administration that resisted it. The Department 
of the Treasury fought mightily against it. And I was more than happy 
to battle my own party on this because this was the right thing to do 
for U.S. national security. Is there even one Democrat with the courage 
to do that against his own party now that it is the other side?
  The argument I didn't hold any nominees--why would I hold nominees? 
President Trump signed the bill. I have said from the beginning: If 
Biden imposes the sanctions, I will lift all the holds. I lifted 32 
holds in December to get this vote.
  My focus is on stopping this pipeline and stopping Putin and Russia. 
And their argument that, well, Trump didn't impose sanctions--that is 
correct, because Putin stopped building the pipeline.
  I remind you of the timing. President Trump signed the bill, if my 
memory serves correctly, at 7 p.m. on a Thursday night. Putin stopped 
building the pipeline at 6:45 p.m., 15 minutes beforehand. There was 
nothing to sanction because they didn't commit the sanctionable 
conduct; they stopped. They only returned to building the pipeline--
does the Presiding Officer know what date Putin began building the 
deep-sea pipeline once again? January 24, 2021, 4 days after Joe Biden 
was sworn into office. Putin knew that Biden was going to do what he 
did: waive the sanctions and surrender. The sanctions worked. We had a 
bipartisan victory that, inexplicably, this White House gave away.
  I want to take a minute to speak to my Democratic colleagues.
  Listen, there are lots of issues we are going to disagree with one 
another on a partisan matter. That is fine. We will talk about tax 
rates, whether they should be high or low. We can have good, vigorous 
arguments about that. That is a part of our democracy. But in this 
instance, the Biden White House is carrying out a policy that makes no 
sense, that abandons our allies, that is harmful to American national 
security, that strengthens and encourages the aggression of Vladimir 
Putin, a bully and a tyrant, and that makes war much more likely.
  Most, if not all, of my Democratic colleagues know all of this. I am 
going

[[Page S205]]

to ask my Democratic colleagues to do something hard, which is to have 
the courage to stand up and take some partisan grief for voting against 
the White House on this one. Save the White House from the mistake they 
are making. That is one of the roles of the Senate. We keep hearing the 
analogy the Framers used of a saucer to cool the tempers of the moment. 
The Senate did that with President Trump. The Senate should do so with 
President Biden as well.
  In my 10 years in the U.S. Senate, I have taken a lot of votes. The 
Presiding Officer has taken a lot of votes. There are very few votes 
that I think are as consequential as the vote we are getting ready to 
take.
  If Senate Democrats put partisan loyalty above national security, if 
they vote simply by party line, it will dramatically increase the 
chances of a violent Russian invasion of Ukraine. Days or weeks or 
months from now, if we turn on the television set and see Russian tanks 
in the streets of Kiev, the reason will be that the U.S. Senate heard 
the pleas of our Ukrainian allies and we turned a deaf ear to them. I 
pray that we don't do so. The eyes of history are upon us, and this 
body, Republicans and Democrats, should rise to the occasion.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Illinois.


                             Voting Rights

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, earlier today, the Republican Senate 
leader came to the floor and noted the fact that when the American 
people were asked about the issues of the moment, they didn't mention 
their right to vote. I think most Americans would be surprised that we 
are even debating that issue at this moment in American history.
  We know the right to vote has been contentious, divisive, deadly when 
it comes to the policies of this Nation and particularly the policies 
of individual States. It was one of the critical reasons, in addition 
to the hideous institution of slavery, that we went to war among 
ourselves and 600,000-plus Americans gave their lives. It really was at 
the heart of what happened after that when the North prevailed, the 
Union was saved, and the President of the United States, a man from 
Illinois, not only created an Emancipation Proclamation but set the 
stage for constitutional amendments which guaranteed that right to 
vote.
  So I imagine some people would be excused if they didn't list it as 
the highest priority. They probably assume it is really not an issue 
for debate, but it is. You see, in this last Presidential election, we 
had two or three historic things occur.
  First, the turnout of American voters was unprecedented. That is a 
good thing. In a democracy, it is to be applauded, and each year, we 
should try to improve on that outcome.
  The second thing, though, we would have to put in the liability 
column, and that is a petulant former President who refused to even 
acknowledge that he lost the election and instead claims that he was 
abused and that it was stolen from him. That fanciful lie is now making 
its way across America back and forth as former President Trump peddles 
it in every quarter. Unfortunately, some people are listening. Some 30 
percent of American people agree with the former President that the 
election was stolen from him.
  He couldn't win that argument in any courtroom. He couldn't even 
convince his handpicked Attorney General to back him up. So he resorted 
to sending a mob of his followers on January 6, 2021, to storm this 
Capitol. For the first time since 1812, we were invaded by people who 
did not subscribe to the basic tenets of our Constitution. It was a 
grim day. I will never forget it. Those who were here, I am sure, say 
the same. But it set the stage for a campaign that has followed for 
more than a year.
  This morning, we read in the paper that some eight Republican 
attorneys general are going to close ranks in a Trump-inspired alliance 
to change election laws across America to his liking. Shame on them, 
and shame on anyone who thinks that is what America is all about.
  We should encourage more and more of those legally eligible to vote. 
We should make it an easy exercise and not a hardship and burden. But 
the States--almost 20 of them now--are in the process of changing the 
laws in their States on voting and, with each change in the law, making 
it more difficult. Oh, it doesn't sound too reprehensible on its face, 
until you add it all together: the notion that people would have less 
time to apply for absentee ballots; the fact that they would have to 
come up with a good reason; that their applications for those ballots 
would have to contain certain information, which is new and sometimes 
challenging to individuals; limiting the periods of time that people 
can vote; limiting the opportunity to register to vote in special 
elections, as in the State of Georgia. Each one of those is an additive 
factor to reducing the likelihood that people will turn up and vote--
even this notion in Georgia that you can't provide food and drink to 
voters waiting in line.
  Well, in my hometown of Springfield, IL, we vote in the Park 
District. There is seldom a wait of more than 5 minutes. That is about 
the average across America, but we know there are exceptions. We have 
seen people waiting in line much longer. In fact, one State found that 
African Americans waited in line an average of 50 minutes--not 5; 50 
minutes. The idea of perhaps giving someone a drink of water under 
those circumstances is now against the law in Georgia. It is hard to 
imagine. That is just one of the things they wanted to add to the 
burdens of voting in America.
  So when we come to the floor and discuss voting, and the Republican 
leader tells us people don't care--I bet they will when they come to 
realize what is happening.
  It is interesting that he notes that what they do care about--they 
care about the coronavirus. I do too.
  I didn't have to check the voting records to know what I am about to 
say is true. That Senator from Kentucky and every other Senator on that 
side of the aisle voted against Joe Biden's American Rescue Plan.
  In the beginning of his administration, he had a bold, policy-driven 
piece of legislation called the American Rescue Plan, which set out to 
do something that had to be done. Yes, we had found the vaccines, but 
in order to produce them and to administer them, we needed a program 
that cost money.
  Joe Biden stepped up and said: This is what we are going to do. We 
are going to get this jab, this shot, available to Americans across the 
board, and we are going to spend the money to do it. It does no good to 
have a formula that can save your life, and yet you can't access it or 
pay for it.
  So he put it in the American Rescue Plan. It just made common sense, 
didn't it? With so many people dying and sick, that we have an 
ambitious, unprecedented, historic administration of that vaccine 
across America? It was an easy vote for me and for every Democrat and 
obviously easy on the other side for Republicans because not a single 
one, including the Republican leader from Kentucky, would support 
President Biden in that effort.
  There was money in there as well to keep businesses open so that they 
could hire back their people, go back in business. I don't know about 
the Presiding Officer's State. I am sure New Jersey is similar to 
Illinois. But I have talked to a lot of restauranteurs who walked up to 
me and said: Senator, we never met before, but if you hadn't voted to 
give me a chance to reopen this business, I wouldn't be here today.
  That is the reality of the bill that the Republicans all, every 
single one, voted against. So it is no surprise that they come to the 
floor critical of Joe Biden and his Presidency and saying he just 
doesn't understand the real issues. Well, the coronavirus is a real 
issue. The President's response was a real response. Sadly, the 
unanimous opposition to the President by the Republican side of the 
aisle was also a real response.
  I can remember, coming out of college and hearing about the Voting 
Rights Act being debated right here on the floor of the U.S. Senate, 
and as I have said before on the floor--and I won't belabor it--I have 
taken the time over the years to understand what led up to it--
Reconstruction, Jim Crow, the great migration, and all that followed 
from that.
  And my friend--and she is my friend--Carol Anderson, a professor at 
Emory University in Atlanta, GA, has written a book called ``One 
Person, No Vote.'' She flattered me and asked me

[[Page S206]]

to write the forward to the book, which I gladly did, and then read it 
and thought: What an incredible story it tells us about America and the 
battle to win the vote.
  I remember--as I mentioned, I was young and fresh out of college and 
law school--when Dr. Martin Luther King came to the city of Chicago. I 
remember it well because I was in the midst of working as a young man 
on a political campaign. And it made all the headlines when Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr., decided to walk through Marquette Park. That 
particular parade--that protest--drew violence from people dressed in 
Nazi uniforms, throwing rocks at him, and jeering at those who 
supported his effort.
  I remember that because, nowadays, when you talk about Dr. Martin 
Luther King's day of observance, which is coming up next week, people 
have a tendency to think of that in gentle and positive terms--and it 
should be. But let's not forget the price he paid--ultimately, his 
life--to deliver that message to a divided America. And so when we talk 
about why he did it and what it meant to us, one of the guiding factors 
was the right to vote and his belief that, from Reconstruction forward 
to his day, we were still finding ways to deny the right to vote to 
African Americans and others in this country. It was that fundamental 
an issue--an issue he was willing to give his life for.
  For some of us, Martin Luther King Day will be a day of reflection, a 
chance to envision in America what it truly means to be ``free at 
last.'' But it is also a day of action. Let's hope we have some action 
here on the floor of the U.S. Senate.
  Each day we open the session in the Senate by pledging allegiance to 
the flag. That is a good thing. I do it out of respect and gladly so. 
But we don't stand here and pledge allegiance to the filibuster. The 
filibuster is a Senate rule, not that long in its history, that is an 
interpretation of what the Senate is about. It has changed over the 
years over and over again. It is not sacred. It is not constitutional 
dictum. It is, in fact, the best efforts of politicians in this 
Chamber, in their day, to write a rule that establishes a minimum vote.
  What does it mean to us? Well, it means a lot. In a Senate that is 
divided 50-50--50 Republicans and 50 Democrats--it means that there are 
measures which require 60 votes. It used to be a rare occurrence in 
this body that someone would invoke a filibuster, and yet now it has 
become virtually commonplace.
  If you just look at the last 5 or 10 years, you can see a change in 
the Senate, a dramatic orchestrated change in the Senate. What was 
uncommon, requiring 60 votes for a measure, has now become the 
standard, and, of course, what that means is very few things come to 
the floor of the Senate.
  When the Republicans were in control, just a few years ago, during 
the course of an entire calendar year, on the Senate floor we voted for 
26 amendments--26. In the normal history of the Senate, hundreds of 
amendments are voted in the course of a year. But because of the 
filibuster and the design of many to slow down and stop the business of 
the Senate, in 1 year we voted for 26 amendments--26.
  And that is what happens when you shut down debate. That is what 
happens when you shut down opportunity for amendments. And that is what 
happens when you pledge allegiance to the filibuster.
  We have to be honest about this. There should be an exception written 
in for the filibuster when it comes to voting rights. Something as 
fundamental as our constitutional authority to vote should be given the 
day for argument on the floor of the Senate and should be subject to a 
majority vote, up or down. That is not too much to ask.
  I would rather pledge allegiance to the flag and to the voting 
authority in America that it represents than to the filibuster, a rule 
which has been misused as much as it has been properly used in its 
history.
  There are many enduring victories we can attribute to Dr. King and 
the civil rights movement. But the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the 
Voting Rights Act of 1965 are certainly high on the list. These laws 
put a stake in the heart of Jim Crow, expanding voting rights to 
generations of Black Americans.
  Prior to the passage of these laws, State legislators throughout the 
Deep South had disenfranchised voters of color through a whirlwind of 
discriminatory legislation. These laws didn't explicitly ban Black 
Americans from voting. The 15th Amendment, ratified during 
Reconstruction, prevented them from doing that. But soon enough, these 
lawmakers discovered new ways to discriminate against voters of color. 
And in decades after Reconstruction, they erected barriers to the 
ballot box, like poll taxes, property ownership requirements, literacy 
tests.
  When it comes to Jim Crow laws, it is easy to get caught up in 
abstractions and generic descriptions. You hear the phrase ``literacy 
test,'' that was used even into the 1960s in America, and you think: 
Well, that just means I have to read at grade-school level, right?
  Wrong. A poll test from a Louisiana parish had questions on it which 
I struggle to answer even today. And they were designed to make sure 
that voters wouldn't be able to answer. ``Draw a line around a number 
or letter of this sentence.'' What the heck does that mean? And on and 
on.
  I share this example to demonstrate what voter suppression looked 
like in the days of Dr. King. In the words of historian Carol Anderson, 
whom I mentioned earlier, tactics like literacy tests were 
``legislative evil genius.'' They didn't disenfranchise voters on the 
basis of their skin color outright. But they were only administered to 
some voters, and you can imagine which ones.
  Thank God the Members of the Senate on a bipartisan basis decided in 
the 1960s to outlaw this legislative sleight of hand. Our predecessors 
didn't cave in to the disingenuous cries of ``States' rights,'' which 
we hear to this day on the Republican side of the aisle. Our 
predecessors understood that voting is a fundamental liberty. It should 
be treated differently. It is the reason we pledge allegiance to that 
flag, because we make the decision, under that flag, of who governs us.
  Right now, millions of American voters are facing a new wave of voter 
suppression laws, and much like the proponents of Jim Crow laws did in 
their day, Republicans State lawmakers today are erecting new barriers 
to the ballot box, latching onto the myth of ``widespread voter 
fraud.'' That is what the State legislative leaders are saying. Where 
could they have come up with that idea? Is it possible that it is a 
disgruntled former President with a bruised ego because he lost his 
effort for reelection in 2020?
  The reality is, the laws they are passing in these States are not 
about preventing voter fraud. They are about preventing eligible 
Americans from voting. The nurse working back-to-back shifts on 
election day, the single parent who doesn't own a car or can't afford a 
babysitter, or a person living with a disability--should we be 
concerned as to whether they have an opportunity to vote? We certainly 
should.
  The new laws enacted in nearly 20 States will prevent our most 
vulnerable neighbors from exercising their right to vote. That is why 
we ought to look at the Senate rules. It isn't just a matter of some 
theoretical academic debate on the rules. These are real-life decisions 
in States across the Nation.
  And the most troubling of these laws take the assault of democracy 
even further. They give partisan actors more power to meddle and 
interfere in election administration. Some of the proposals we have 
seen can potentially allow partisans to overrule the valid votes of the 
American people and anoint a victor of their own choosing.
  Over the next few days, I expect many of us will quote excerpts of 
Dr. King's most famous speeches. My hope is that we will take heed of 
the words he wrote in that letter from the Birmingham jail. In it, he 
responded to a group of White religious leaders who had pleaded with 
him and his fellow civil rights advocates to slow down, wait a little 
longer, racial equality is going to follow soon.
  In response, Dr. King wrote: ``For years now, I've heard the word 
`Wait!'. . . . This `Wait' has almost meant `Never'. . . . We must come 
to see, with one of our distinguished jurists, of yesterday that 
`justice too long delayed is justice denied.'''
  He continued, ``We've waited for more than 340 years for our God-
given and constitutional rights. . . . I hope,

[[Page S207]]

sirs, you can understand our legitimate and unavoidable impatience.''
  The issue that we are debating on voting rights and the issue of our 
rules is not just a casual conversation about a rule book no one hardly 
knows of. It is an issue that does go to the heart of our democracy, to 
our pledge of allegiance to the flag, not to the filibuster.
  The issue is our Republican colleagues are afraid of this debate. 
Traditionally, they played a key role in the passage of the Voting 
Rights Act in the 1960s. In fact, percentagewise, there were more 
Republican Senators voting for that than Democratic Senators. And I say 
that acknowledging that my Democratic Party, in those days, was not 
altogether on the right side.

  We have been told that we are breaking the Senate if we change this 
rule to protect people's right to vote. At the heart of what the Senate 
is and what it stands for and the reason it exists is the right of 
Americans to vote.
  Is it worth a carve-out? Is it worth a change? Is it worth a 
modification of the Senate rules to protect the right to vote? Can 
anything be more sacred?
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Arizona.
  Ms. SINEMA. Mr. President, I rise at a challenging, divisive time for 
our Nation. For years, America's politics have spiraled steadily 
downward into increasingly bitter, tribal partisanship, and our 
democracy has been strained.
  While that may sound abstract, it is a problem that hurts Americans 
in real, tangible ways. These deepening divisions hurt our ability to 
work together, to create new job opportunities, to protect the health 
and safety of our communities and country, and to ensure everyday 
families get ahead. Americans across the country know this. They see it 
every day, not only on social media and cable news but at their jobs 
and around their dinner tables. We are divided.
  It is more likely today that we look at other Americans who have 
different views and see the other or even see them as enemies instead 
of as fellow country men and women who share our core values. It is 
more common today to demonize someone who thinks differently than us, 
rather than to seek to understand their views.
  Our politics reflect and exacerbate these divisions, making it more 
and more difficult to find lasting, broadly supported solutions to 
safeguard our freedoms, keep our country safe, and expand opportunity 
for all our citizens.
  So two questions face us as a nation: Where does this descending 
spiral of division lead, and how can we stop it?
  Our country's divisions have now fueled efforts in several States 
that will make it more difficult for Americans to vote and undermine 
faith that all Americans should have in our elections and our 
democracy. These State laws have no place in a nation whose government 
is formed by free, fair, and open elections.
  We must also acknowledge a painful fact:
  The State laws we seek to address are symptoms of a larger, more 
deeply rooted problem facing our democracy--the divisions themselves, 
which have hardened in recent years and have combined with rampant 
disinformation to push too many Americans away from our basic 
constitutional values.
  In the spring of 2017, after Trump took office, I wrote an opinion 
piece in the Arizona Republic highlighting my concerns about the 
strains on our constitutional boundaries and the shrinking respect for 
our founding constitutional principles. In the years that followed, my 
colleagues and I in this body were called upon to participate in two 
separate impeachment trials for crimes against our Constitution.
  And on January 6, last year, I was standing in this very spot, 
speaking in this very Chamber, defending Arizona's fair and valid 
election against disinformation, when violent insurrectionists halted 
the Presidential certification.
  Threats to American democracy are real.
  I share the concerns of civil right advocates and others I have heard 
from in recent months about these State laws. I strongly support those 
efforts to contest these laws in court and to invest significant 
resources into these States to better organize and stop efforts to 
restrict access at the ballot box.
  And I strongly support and will continue to vote for legislative 
responses to address these State laws--including the Freedom to Vote 
Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act that the Senate is 
currently considering.
  I support these bills because they strengthen Americans' access to 
the ballot box, and they better ensure that Americans' votes are 
counted fairly. It is through elections that Americans make their 
voices heard, select their representatives, and guide the future of our 
country and our communities.
  These bills help treat the symptoms of the disease, but they do not 
fully address the disease itself. And while I continue to support these 
bills, I will not support separate actions that worsen the underlying 
disease of division infecting our country.
  The debate over the Senate's 60-vote threshold shines a light on our 
broader challenges. There is no need for me to restate my longstanding 
support for the 60-vote threshold to pass legislation.
  There is no need for me to restate its role: protecting our country 
from wild reversals in Federal policy. It is a view I have held during 
my years serving in both the U.S. House and the Senate, and it is the 
view I continue to hold. It is the belief that I have shared many times 
in public settings and in private settings.
  Senators of both parties have offered ideas, including some that 
would earn my support to make this body more productive, more 
deliberative, more responsive to Americans' needs, and a place of 
genuine debate about our country's pressing issues.
  And while this week's harried discussions about Senate rules are but 
a poor substitute for what I believe could have--and should have--been 
a thoughtful public debate at any time over the past year, such a 
discussion is still a worthy goal.
  But a discussion of rules falls short of what is required. American 
politics are cyclical, and the granting of power in Washington, DC, is 
exchanged regularly by the voters from one party to another.
  This shift of power back and forth means the Senate 60-vote threshold 
has proved maddening to Members of both political parties in recent 
years--viewed either as a weapon of obstruction or a safety net to save 
the country from radical policies, depending on whether you serve in 
the majority or the minority.
  But what is the legislative filibuster other than a tool that 
requires new Federal policy to be broadly supported by Senators 
representing a broader cross section of Americans--a guardrail 
inevitably viewed as an obstacle by whoever holds the Senate majority 
but which, in reality, ensures that millions of Americans, represented 
by the minority party, have a voice in the process?
  Demands to eliminate this threshold--from whichever party holds the 
fleeting majority--amount to a group of people separated on two sides 
of a canyon, shouting that solution to their colleagues, and that makes 
the rift both wider and deeper.
  Consider this: In recent years, nearly every party-line response to 
the problems we face in this body, every partisan action taken to 
protect a cherished value has led us to more division, not less.
  The impact is clear for all to see: the steady escalation of tit for 
tat, in which each new majority weakens the guardrails of the Senate 
and excludes input from the other party, furthering resentment and 
anger amongst this body and our constituents at home.
  Democrats' increased use of requiring cloture for traditional 
nominees under President George W. Bush led to similar tactics by 
Republicans under President Barack Obama. The 2013 decision by 
Senate Democrats to eliminate the 60-vote threshold for most judicial 
and Presidential nominations led directly to a response in 2017 by 
Senate Republicans who eliminated the threshold for Supreme Court 
nominees.

  These shortsighted actions by both parties have led to our current 
American judiciary and Supreme Court which, as I stand here today, is 
considering questions regarding fundamental rights Americans have 
enjoyed for decades.
  Eliminating the 60-vote threshold--on a party line with the thinnest 
of possible majorities--to pass these bills

[[Page S208]]

that I support will not guarantee that we prevent demagogues from 
winning office.
  Indeed, some who undermine the principles of democracy have already 
been elected. Rather, eliminating the 60-vote threshold will simply 
guarantee that we lose a critical tool that we need to safeguard our 
democracy from threats in the years to come.
  It is clear that the two parties' strategies are not working--not for 
either side and especially not for the country.
  I know it is comfortable for Members of each party, particularly 
those who spent their career in party politics, to think that their 
respective party alone can move the country forward. Party control 
becomes a goal in and of itself, instead of prioritizing a healthy, 
appropriate balance in which Americans' diverse views and shared values 
are represented.
  But when one party needs only to negotiate with itself, policy will 
inextricably be pushed from the middle toward the extremes.
  And I understand, there are some on both sides of the aisle that 
prefer that outcome, but I do not. And I know that Arizonans do not 
either. Our country's first President, George Washington, a leader 
whose wisdom I borrowed at the conclusion of the 2020 impeachment 
trial--he warned against political factions more than 200 years ago, 
saying that extreme partisanship could lead to the ``ruins of public 
liberty.''
  ``I was no party man myself,'' Washington wrote, ``and the first wish 
of my heart was, if parties did exist, to reconcile them.''
  Today, we serve in an equally divided Senate, and today marks the 
longest time in history that the Senate has been equally divided. The 
House of Representatives is nearly equally divided as well.
  Our mandate? It seems evident to me: work together and get stuff done 
for America.
  And the past years have shown when a party in control pushes party-
line changes exceeding their electoral mandate, the bitterness within 
our politics is exacerbated, tensions are raised within the country, 
and traditionally nonpartisan issues are transformed into partisan 
wedges.
  We must address the disease itself--the disease of division--to 
protect our democracy. And it cannot be achieved by one party alone. It 
cannot be achieved solely by the Federal Government. The response 
requires something greater and, yes, more difficult, than what the 
Senate is discussing today.
  We need robust, sustained strategies that put aside party labels and 
focus on our democracy because these challenges are bigger than party 
affiliation.
  We must commit to a long-term approach as serious as the problems we 
seek to solve--one that prioritizes listening and understanding, one 
that embraces making progress on shared priorities and finding common 
ground on issues where we hold differing and diverse views.
  This work requires all Americans everywhere. Efforts to fix these 
problems on a bare-majority party line will only succeed in 
exacerbating the root causes that gave way to these State laws in the 
first place, extending our dissent into a more fragmented America.
  This work is our shared responsibility as Americans. I share the 
disappointment of many that we have not found more support on the other 
side of the aisle for legislative responses to State-level voting 
restrictions. I wish that were not the case, just as I wish there had 
been a more serious effort on the part of Democratic Party leaders to 
sit down with the other party and genuinely discuss how to reforge 
common ground on these issues.

  My Republican colleagues have a duty to meet their shared 
responsibility to protect access to voting and the integrity of our 
electoral process.
  We need a sustained, robust effort to defend American democracy, an 
effort on the part of Democrats, Republicans, Independents, and all 
Americans in communities across this country. So we ask, What must we 
do to protect our democracy?
  We should invest heavily in recruiting and supporting State and local 
candidates for office--in both parties--who represent the values 
enshrined in our Constitution.
  We should ensure we have a judiciary that is less lopsided in its 
political leanings and that we can all depend on to uphold the 
Constitution.
  We must confront and combat the rise of rampant disinformation and 
ensure that all Americans have the tools to see fact from fiction. This 
will be particularly difficult work since some in power have used 
disinformation to manipulate our differences and pull Americans apart, 
pressuring us to see our fellow Americans as enemies.
  The dangers facing our democracy took years to metastasize, and they 
will take years of sustained, focused effort to effectively reverse. 
There are steps that we can take today to fix our politics and better 
set the stage for repairing our democracy.
  Many of you know I began my career as a social worker. And in our 
social work training, our first necessary skill is the ability to 
listen to others--listening not to argue or rebut but listening to 
understand. I ran for the U.S. Senate rejecting partisanship, willing 
to work with anyone to help Arizonans build better and more secure 
lives.
  And throughout my time serving Arizona, I have listened to Arizonans 
expressing diverse views on inflation, economic competitiveness, 
climate, and social priorities, and the role of the Federal government 
itself.
  I find myself grateful, time and time again, to learn from Arizonans 
who share the same core values but differ in position on issues and 
policies. Their similarities and their differences are surely 
representative of the complexity of Americans nationwide.
  So I find this question answers itself: Can two Americans of sharp 
intellect and good faith reach different conclusions to the same 
question? Yes. Yes, of course they can.
  It is easy for elected officials to give speeches about what they 
believe. It is harder to listen and acknowledge that there are a whole 
lot of Americans with different ideas about what is important in our 
country and how to solve those problems.
  And yet it is important to recognize that disagreements are OK. They 
are normal. And honest disagreements matched with a willingness to 
listen and learn can help us forge sturdy and enduring solutions.
  You know, Congress was designed to bring together Americans of 
diverse views, representing different interests and, as a collective, 
to find compromise and common ground to serve our country as a whole.
  We face serious challenges, and meeting them must start with a 
willingness to be honest, to listen to one another, to lower the 
political temperature, and to seek lasting solutions.
  Some have given up on the goal of easing our divisions and uniting 
Americans; I have not.
  I have worked hard to demonstrate in my public service the value of 
working with unlikely allies to get results, helping others see our 
common humanity and finding our common ground, and I remain stubbornly 
optimistic because this is America. We have overcome every challenge we 
have ever faced.
  I am committed to doing my part to avoid toxic political rhetoric, to 
build bridges, to forge common ground, and to achieve lasting results 
for Arizona and this country. But we are in desperate need of more--
more people who are willing to listen, to seek understanding, to stitch 
together the fabric of our country that has been ripping around the 
edges; more people who are willing to put down the sticks sharpened for 
battle and instead pick up their neighbors to learn why they are angry 
or upset or left behind.
  So I call on each of us as Americans: Let us be those people. We are 
but one country. We have but one democracy. We can only survive, we can 
only keep her, if we do so together.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Kentucky.


                                S. 3436

  Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I rise today to speak against the 
sanctioning of German and Russian businesses over the transport of 
natural gas between their countries.
  Proponents of sanctions say: Sanction this, sanction that. The 
Department of the Treasury is currently administering dozens of 
sanctions programs designed to change the behavior of certain 
countries. Yet, no one seems to ask the important questions: Do 
sanctions promote peace and understanding, or do they escalate tension 
between nations? What behavior has China modified since the United 
States began sanctions? Has Russia changed

[[Page S209]]

her behavior? Has Russia given back Crimea? Sanctions, although lacking 
in proof of effectiveness, are very popular with both parties.
  Embargoes, sanctions' big brother, also garner bipartisan enthusiasm. 
The U.S. embargo of Cuba has now gone on for more than 60 years without 
any evidence of a change in regime or even a change in the regime's 
policy.
  Embargoes are often described, especially by the embargoed country, 
as an act of war. Many historians say that the U.S.'s embargo of 1807 
ultimately led to the War of 1812. President Jefferson's embargo was 
intended to punish France and England for their aggressions, but 
instead the embargo crippled American shipping exports. Exports 
declined by 75 percent.
  Some historians also blame the U.S. embargo of Japan for the ensuing 
war. Roosevelt seized many of Japan's assets, and Japan lost access to 
much of its international trade and over 80 percent of its imported 
oil. Effectively, at least from the perspective of Japan, the embargo 
was an act of war.
  Yet enthusiasts for embargoes and sanctions still clamor for more. 
Sanctionistas point to the international sanctions against Iran as the 
lever that brought about the Obama-era nuclear agreement with Iran. 
Perhaps, but an equally valid argument could be made that it was the 
extension of carrots rather than sticks that brought Iran to the table. 
It is funny how diplomacy seems to require give-and-take, not just 
take, take, take.
  Our interaction with Iran should illuminate today's debate over 
sanctions on the Nord Stream 2 Pipeline between Russia and Germany, but 
the shade of mercantilism is dimming the light of experience.
  Opponents of the pipeline, not surprisingly, are largely from States 
that compete in the sale of natural gas. This is more about 
protectionism than it is national security. Reports are that the 
pipeline will cause a significant reduction in U.S. exports of liquid 
natural gas; hence the keen interest by people representing States that 
sell natural gas. This is not so much about national security; it is 
about protectionism.
  Acknowledging that this debate is only superficially about national 
security and really more about provincial protectionism helps us better 
understand the dynamics.
  History demonstrates that trade and interconnectedness between 
nations is a barrier to war. Engaging in mutually beneficial commerce, 
coupled with a potent military deterrence, is the combination that best 
promises peace.
  Over the past decade, Congress and Presidents have heaped sanctions 
on Russia and China. When I have asked the State Department officials 
who come before our committee to reveal what behavioral changes have 
come about as a result of sanctions, I have often gotten blank stares.
  Now, the sanctionistas want to sanction an already completed 
pipeline. Last year, they said that if we put sanctions on, we will 
stop them. Well, the Senate and the House overwhelmingly passed 
sanctions. We got sanctions, and they still completed the pipeline.
  But what behavior are they now asking Russia to change? What 
specifically has Russia been asked to do? What Russian action is 
necessary for these sanctions to end?
  I have asked the sponsor of this bill: The sanctions that you want to 
do to Russia, what behavior--what do you want from Russia? The response 
is that they don't want any behavioral changes from Russia. The word-
for-word response from the sponsors of this bill is that they just want 
Russia not to ship oil to Germany. It is about trade. It is about trade 
that might compete with certain natural gas-producing States. It has 
nothing to do with national security.
  If Nord Stream 2 sanctions were really about changing Russian 
behavior or deterring aggression in Ukraine, then NATO, including 
Germany, could threaten sanctions if Russia invades Ukraine. Now, 
that--the threat of sanctions, with Germany as an ally--might actually 
have deterring value.
  In fact, last summer, the United States and Germany did just that. 
The United States and Germany announced an agreement in which they said 
jointly that any attempt to use energy as a weapon or commit further 
aggressive acts against Ukraine will be met with sanctions. This is 
Germany and the United States together. That has power. Our little 
pinprick sanctions saying ``We don't like you, and we are going to 
punish the companies that are involved'' will do nothing.
  If we actually work with Germany, we have deterring value. Germany 
could turn off the spigot to the natural gas like that. If it is a 
valid threat from Germany with us, together, we might be able to deter 
Russia. But simply turning the gas pipeline off now and sanctioning it 
is like being a hostage taker and saying ``We don't want you to do 
this, and we have your hostage'' and then going ahead and shooting the 
hostage before you get what you want.
  We should threaten sanctions. The threat of sanctions has power. Once 
you turn them on and you have no plan to turn them off, you have no 
leverage over Russia and you do nothing.
  The commitment or the agreement between Germany and the United 
States--the agreement says, ``This commitment is designed to ensure 
Russia will not misuse any pipeline, including Nord Stream 2, to 
achieve aggressive political ends'' or they will be met with sanctions. 
This could be a deterrence.
  The more countries that got together and said this--an international 
community of sanctions can have some effect. One-country sanctions, 
particularly against its ally, Germany, will have no effect.
  The rush to impose sanctions now undermines the threat of sanctions 
to deter Russian aggression against Ukraine. When you put sanctions on 
now and you offer them nothing and no way to remove the sanctions, how 
are you deterring anything? In fact, you might well make them angry 
enough that they actually do act in response to the sanctions in the 
opposite of what you have intended.
  As today's debate unfolds, I think you will find that sanctions 
against Nord Stream 2 are more about mercantilism and protectionism 
than national security.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Wyoming.
  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, first, I would like to ask unanimous 
consent that I be able to speak for up to 5 minutes, followed by 
Senator Sullivan, who is on the floor, for up to 15 minutes and then 
Senator Sasse for up to 7 minutes before the scheduled recess.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I would hope that everyone in this body 
has listened to Senator Sinema's important speech on the filibuster 
just now. I really appreciated her clear-eyed rationale--her rationale 
to preserve the minority voices in this body and to find common ground 
in this Chamber. I thank her.
  Mr. President, I also come to the floor today to support the 
sanctions on Vladimir Putin's Nord Stream 2 Pipeline. Now, I urge all 
of my colleagues to vote in support of S. 3436, the Protecting Europe's 
Energy Security Implementation Act.
  You know, last week, the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister 
of Ukraine endorsed this legislation. The Prime Minister said the 
following:

       Nord Stream 2 is no less an existential threat to our 
     security and democracy than Russian troops on our border. 
     Senators shouldn't vote to protect Russia and Nord Stream 2. 
     This is a security matter not only for Ukraine, but for the 
     entire region.

  I believe the Prime Minister of Ukraine is exactly right.
  The Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline is being built by Gazprom. For people 
who aren't familiar with that, Gazprom is the Russian state-owned 
natural gas company. Now, the pipeline would double the amount of 
Russian gas going to Germany via the Baltic Sea.
  This pipeline is an existential threat to our ally Ukraine. It is a 
threat to our allies in Europe as well.
  Right now, Vladimir Putin has mobilized 100,000 troops on the border 
of Ukraine. He can afford to do this because he is flush with cash. 
Rising energy prices and reduced American production mean Vladimir 
Putin has hit the energy economic jackpot. The world is now more 
dependent on Russian oil and energy. If gas starts to flow through this 
pipeline, Vladimir Putin will get even richer, more powerful, and the 
world will become even more dependent on him, the dictator.

[[Page S210]]

  Vladimir Putin uses energy as a geopolitical weapon. He uses energy 
to coerce our allies and our partners in Europe.
  Stopping this pipeline should be an area of bipartisan agreement. In 
fact, it was an area of bipartisan agreement in this very body until 
Joe Biden became President. Many Democrats in the body voted for 
sanctions the first time around. Even Joe Biden opposed the pipeline 
before he became President.
  Congress has overwhelmingly passed several pieces of bipartisan 
legislation imposing sanctions on this Russian pipeline. Yet the Biden 
administration refuses to implement these laws.
  The Biden administration has now been actively lobbying this body and 
actively lobbying Congress against this bill. Democrats must think it 
would give Putin what he wants. I don't get it. They think that if you 
give Putin what he wants, then he is going to play nice. That is not 
going to happen. Every American President must negotiate from a 
standpoint and a position of American strength. Vladimir Putin is 
cunning, opportunistic, and aggressive. He respects strength, not 
statements. When he sees an opportunity, he takes it. He can smell the 
weakness.
  The pipeline will mean an enormous transfer of wealth--wealth from 
our allies to our enemy. It will make our allies weaker, and it will 
make Putin stronger. If Putin gets stronger, we know he will get even 
more aggressive.
  It is time now for this body to stand up--stand up against Russia. It 
is time to sanction this pipeline.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Alaska.
  Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I want to commend my colleague from 
Wyoming Senator Barrasso, who has been a leader on so many of these 
issues, and Senator Cruz on his bill, this important piece of 
legislation that we are going to be voting on here in a couple hours.
  This Nord Stream 2 sanctions bill is not just about the immediate 
crisis in Ukraine, but this would be a continuation of long-term 
bipartisan American strategy as it deals with Russia, energy security, 
and American security. So I want to provide a little broader context to 
that bipartisan strategy and put this debate and vote that we are 
having here today into that context.
  The U.S. commitment to European security, as we all know, is 
ironclad. We fought two world wars and a cold war to protect our 
interests in a free and open Europe. We expanded NATO to secure those 
gains and to prevent Russia from ever building a new empire that could 
threaten us or our allies.
  As we all know, Russian power is not just a function of military 
power; to the contrary, Vladimir Putin and the Russians for decades 
have been using energy in terms of power and energy as a weapon. As a 
matter of fact, it is their weapon of choice in many instances in 
Europe.
  Let me provide a few recent examples.
  If you look at this map, one pipeline that is actually not depicted 
is the so-called Brotherhood Pipeline from Russia into Ukraine, and it 
goes into Europe. The Russians have cut off supplies of natural gas on 
that and other pipelines going through Ukraine in 2006, in 2008, in 
2014, and in 2015.
  In Moldova, shortly after the defeat of a pro-Russian Government and 
the election of a pro-Western one, Russia did what they normally do. 
They cut off gas to that country.
  And it is not just impacting countries like Ukraine. When these gas 
supplies were cut off by Russia--because Vladimir Putin was angry about 
something--it impacted over 18 EU countries with regard to those 
cutoffs. And it is happening even today.
  Just yesterday, the head of the International Energy Agency in Paris 
said that Russia is already, right now, strategically limiting natural 
gas to Europe during this very cold winter to pressure European nations 
not to support Ukraine as the Russians amass tens of thousands of 
troops on their border as we speak.
  For these reasons, it has been the longstanding bipartisan American 
policy to do two things as it relates to energy security: First, we 
have sought, dating back to the 1980s, to block implementation of major 
pipelines from Russia--from the then-Soviet Union into Europe. The 
Reagan administration did this with sanctions in 1982, and we have 
continued to work this element of our policy. The other element of 
American bipartisan policy, as it relates to European energy security, 
has been to help countries--former Soviet Union countries, particularly 
in the Caspian and Central Asia area--to provide their own energy 
outlets, in terms of natural gas and oil, to Europe through the 
southern corridor--the BTC Pipeline.
  These are all areas that Democrats and Republicans have been involved 
with in terms of energy supplies to our European allies that don't go 
through Russia. Some of the diplomacy here on these pipelines started 
with the Clinton administration, which did a very good job on this. I 
had the opportunity, as an Assistant Secretary of State in charge of 
economic and energy issues in the Bush Administration, to lead efforts 
on these southern corridor pipelines, and they were successful. Right 
now, these pipelines are providing energy to our allies in Europe. They 
don't go through Russia. They start in countries like Azerbaijan, go 
through Georgia, go through Turkey. This has been very bipartisan, 
supported by the Senate, and the Russians hate this. They hate it.
  Why? Because it doesn't give them any control over energy into 
Europe.
  So, as I mentioned, today's vote is actually part of a long-term 
bipartisan American strategy for decades that we have been pursuing 
because we know the Russians use energy--particularly, natural gas, as 
a weapon.
  So how have we been doing on this? Well, at the end of the Trump 
administration, we were in a very good position on European energy 
security in two key areas. First, as Senator Barrasso mentioned, we had 
strong--very strong--bipartisan support with regard to Nord Stream 2 
sanctions, on its construction and operations. We had overwhelming 
Republican and Democrat support for the sanctions that we are going to 
be voting on today in the 2021 NDAA and in the 2020 NDAA--very big, 
very bipartisan.
  Another reason we were set up very well, in terms of Eurasian energy 
security, is at the end of the Trump administration we had achieved a 
longstanding bipartisan goal of American national security, economic 
security, and energy security. What was that? Energy independence. We, 
once again, had become the world's energy superpower.
  What do I mean by that--largest producer of oil, bigger than Saudi 
Arabia; largest producer of natural gas, bigger than Russia; one of the 
biggest producers of renewables in the world. This is a bipartisan 
goal.
  With regard to European security, why was that so important? Because 
it answered a huge question that the Europeans often said: If we are 
going to block Nord Stream 2, Russian gas into Germany and other places 
in Europe, where are we going to get the gas? Well, we had an answer: 
You are going to get your gas in America.
  Our exports in LNG, liquefied natural gas, surged to take care of 
this problem. This is a good thing.
  In terms of the environment and climate, U.S. LNG exports to Europe 
have a 41-percent lower emissions profile than Russian gas and 
pipelines to Europe. So it is good for the environment, climate, 
national security, energy security.
  And here is another area. This big production of American energy was 
something that the people who know Vladimir Putin best knew that it was 
one of the biggest things we could do.
  A couple of years ago, I was in a meeting with my colleague whom we 
miss very much here, Senator McCain, and a Russian dissident--a very 
famous Russian dissident. And at the very end of the meeting, I asked: 
What more can we do to undermine the Putin regime?
  Do you know what he said to me? He looked me in the eye, without 
hesitation, and said: Produce more American energy. That is the No. 1 
thing that you can do to undermine the Putin regime.
  And we did it. We did it.
  So these are all things, in addition to strengthening our own 
military, in addition to giving the Ukrainians Javelin missile 
systems--all of these things were putting us in a good position. Putin 
seemed very much in a box and certainly wasn't threatening Ukraine with 
tens of thousands of troops on the

[[Page S211]]

border. Where are we today on these key areas that I just mentioned?
  Well, we are not in such good shape.
  In terms of energy independence, this administration seems focused on 
actually destroying the production of American energy--oil and gas in 
particular. I guarantee you, the dictators in Moscow as well as in 
Beijing can hardly believe their luck. It seems like President Biden 
wants to undermine the very bipartisan goals we had for decades--
American energy independence and the United States as the world's 
energy superpower again.
  Just think about what he is seeing: canceled pipelines, the Keystone 
Pipeline, Canada and United States, and the President is green-lighting 
Nord Stream 2; killing energy production in great States like mine. 
Just Monday, there were more obstacles to produce energy in Alaska, and 
now we are importing two times as much oil from Russia as we were a 
year ago. That is helping Putin, hurting the United States.
  What about Nord Stream 2, where we looked so strong just in the past 
few years, with this body, in a strong bipartisan way, sanctioning that 
pipeline right there. President Biden has green-lighted it.
  But we don't have to. That is the point of this vote today. Again, 
this vote is not just about the current crisis in Ukraine; it is about 
continuing a long-term bipartisan approach to Eurasian energy security 
that would make our European allies less vulnerable to Russian energy 
blackmail, which has not only gone back decades, it is literally 
happening right now. Just listen, as I mentioned, to the International 
Energy Agency's report yesterday on this topic.
  To be honest, it is also about a more political question, this vote 
today. Many of my Democratic colleagues suddenly became very hawkish 
against Russia and Putin on these issues and other issues during the 
Trump years, and I welcomed their conversion to a more hard-line 
approach. But it always begged the question, was that more hawkish 
conversion a principled one because they realized being tough on Putin, 
in terms of energy and our military, was the best way to achieve 
American national interests or was this conversion more of a temporary 
one, depending on who occupied the White House? I hope it is not the 
latter, but today's vote will answer that for some of the Senators who 
are looking to change their recent votes.
  But, clearly, some of my colleagues just a few years ago, who were 
voting to sanction and stop the Nord Stream 2 Pipeline and were 
sounding very tough on Vladimir Putin and Russia, are now in a bit of a 
quandary if they vote differently today. So, not surprisingly, they are 
making arguments to rationalize this new position, and I would like to 
review, briefly, just a few of those.
  Senator Murphy has been down on the floor, the junior Senator from 
Connecticut, with a lot of these arguments. And I respect him, a 
thoughtful voice on foreign policy. I don't always agree with him, but 
he is a serious voice. But his arguments on this issue right now are 
not very persuasive or powerful. Here is the thing he is saying right 
now: This isn't about Russia. I am quoting Senator Murphy. This is 
about ``a Cruz-Trump agenda to break up the Atlantic alliance.'' A 
Cruz-Trump agenda to break up the Atlantic alliance.
  Now, look, he is clearly trying to make a boogeyman here, the so-
called Cruz-Trump agenda. But serious people who have been working on 
these issues for decades know that what we are doing today is a 
continuation of long-term bipartisan support for really important 
energy security policy for the United States and our European allies. 
This is continuing that longstanding approach.
  You know, in his quote on the Cruz-Trump agenda, he said: This is 
actually about keeping the Atlantic relationship going to ``save 
Ukraine from an invasion.'' To save Ukraine from an invasion.
  But where is the President of Ukraine on this issue? What does the 
President of Ukraine, who knows a little bit about power politics and 
Putin, think about what we are doing today? He supports sanctions. He 
supports sanctions on Nord Stream 2.
  That is where Senator Murphy is starting to dig a little deeper on 
his weak arguments and trying to provide cover for his colleagues who 
are going to change their vote. He had to respond on where President 
Zelensky of Ukraine was. Here is what Senator Murphy said about that:

       I'm a big supporter of President Zelenskyy. But often he 
     misreads American politics. And I think it would have been 
     better for him to have stayed out of this one.

  Wow.
  So, as to the leader of the country, right here, whom many of us 
think this is all about, who certainly knows what Russian energy power 
politics are about since he has been on the pointy end of that weapon 
many times, we now have a Senator saying: President Zelensky, sit down. 
Be quiet. Stay out of this one. We don't want to hear from you even 
though this is about ``saving'' your country--unless, of course, you 
support his position on Nord Stream 2.
  So these are very weak arguments by the Senator from Connecticut.
  The most legitimate argument I have heard some of my Democratic 
friends make on switching their vote on their previous Nord Stream 2 
sanctions is that the Germans--a very important ally; we all agree on 
that--don't want us to apply Nord Stream 2 sanctions. OK. That is an 
argument we should all consider, and this is what I have heard 
Secretary Blinken and National Security Advisor Sullivan have been 
telling Senators this week as they lobby against this vote we are going 
to take, although, early in the year, it was reported in the press that 
both of them actually supported Nord Stream 2 sanctions.
  Here is the thing on that argument. It is actually hard to tell what 
the Germans really want. In fact, what the Germans really want seems to 
be changing by the hour. There was a recent change in government in 
Germany, and the new Foreign Minister herself has said that the country 
should not grant Nord Stream 2 regulatory approval in order to resist 
``Russian blackmail'' on energy prices. This is the current Foreign 
Minister of Germany.
  It is also important to remember where the rest of the European Union 
is. There is broad opposition in Europe on Nord Stream 2. The European 
Parliament voted last year, on an overwhelming, cross-party basis--581 
to 50--in favor of canceling the entire project in the wake of the 
arrest of Alexei Navalny, a Russian democracy leader whom Putin first 
tried to kill before locking away in prison. The European Parliament 
has voted at least four further times on other resolutions to call on 
the EU to halt this very project, which is what we are looking to vote 
on today.
  Finally, outsourcing this very important foreign policy, national 
security, American issue to the Germans is simply not wise. The Germans 
have not always been so clean or levelheaded when it comes to Russian 
gas, Gazprom, and Nord Stream 2. What am I talking about? Well, of 
course, I am talking about the former Chancellor of Germany, Gerhard 
Schroder--one of the biggest betrayers of the West, certainly, in the 
last century. He left his chancellorship to become Putin's Gazprom 
lapdog. He is the main lobbyist who is pushing Russian gas all over 
Germany and Europe. He is an embarrassment to the Atlantic Alliance. He 
has been the chairman for many years of Gazprom. This is the former 
Chancellor of Germany. Of course, he has influenced Germans to say this 
is good. He has made millions doing it, by the way. He should be 
sanctioned with other Putin cronies.
  At the end of the day, this shouldn't be outsourced to Germany. What 
we need to do is to take a vote on what is right for American national 
security, and a vote that sanctions this pipeline would be consistent 
with long-term, very bipartisan, American-Eurasian energy security 
policy.
  Make no mistake, my colleagues: Nord Stream 2 is Putin's pipeline. 
Let's not make it his lifeline. I encourage all of my colleagues to do 
what they have done recently, in the last couple of years, which is to 
vote in an overwhelming, bipartisan manner to sanction the Nord Stream 
2 Pipeline.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Nebraska.


                               Filibuster

  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, first, I want to commend the senior Senator

[[Page S212]]

from Arizona for an extraordinary stand of courage and just a great 
speech on the floor a few minutes ago.
  I rise today to defend the filibuster again from the latest round of 
attacks. I did this repeatedly in the last administration, earning the 
ire and frustration of a President of my own party over and over again 
as I defended the Senate's purpose and the supermajority requirements 
that forge a consensus in a big, broad, diverse, continental nation. 
Today, I rise to defend the filibuster again when it is a President of 
the other party who has decided to go full demagogue.
  For his entire career in the Senate--basically, Joe Biden served in 
this body as long as I have been alive, plus or minus a few years--Joe 
Biden was a stalwart defender of the filibuster. He said that weakening 
the filibuster would ``eviscerate the Senate.'' But earlier this week, 
the President was pushed around by a bunch of rage-addicted 20-
somethings on his staff and agreed to go down to Georgia and just read 
whatever nonsense they loaded into his teleprompter. It was shameful. 
It was sad.
  The President of the United States called half of the country a bunch 
of racist bigots. Think about that--half the country a bunch of racist 
bigots. He doesn't believe that. This was a senile comment of a man who 
read whatever was loaded into his teleprompter.
  His speechwriters puppet-mastered him into saying that anyone who 
disagrees with him is George Wallace, Bull Connor, Jefferson Davis. If 
you disagree with Joe Biden, you are Jefferson Davis. It is pretty 
breathtaking. Equating millions of Americans to some of the ugliest 
racists in all of American history isn't just overheated rhetoric; it 
is a disgusting smear. Does President Biden really believe this in his 
heart of hearts? Based on the conversations I have had with him over 
the years, I don't think he believes this at all.
  So let's go back to last year. Candidate Joe Biden ran for office, 
promising that he would unify the country. That is why the man was 
elected--because he said that the crap we went through the last 4 years 
was wrong. He said he was going to try to unify the country, but now he 
has decided to surrender to a tiny, little far-left group in the 
mistaken belief that the loudest voices on Twitter actually represent 
America.
  It would be useful for us to pause and recognize that the 
overwhelming majority of all political tweets in America come from less 
than 1\1/2\ percent of Americans. Let's just say that again because 
there are a bunch of morons around this building who have decided to 
take their Twitter feed as reality. It is not reality.
  What the President said in Georgia was nonsense, and Joe Biden, with 
his decades in the U.S. Senate, knows that.
  The President will be coming to Capitol Hill in the next hour. If 
President Biden really believes that Jim Crow is the same thing as a 
lot of States that have decided to reconsider some of their COVID 
expansion policies around voting--that Jim Crow and redeliberating 
about COVID expansions are the same thing--he needs to make that 
argument in person.
  If Joe Manchin is really as big a racist as Joe Biden apparently 
thinks and if Kyrsten Sinema is really a racist--if that is what 
animates Kyrsten Sinema--in the eyes of Joe Biden, he should have the 
courage to say that to their faces. He is not going to say that to 
their faces because he doesn't believe it. Ron Klain has an army of 
Twitter trolls that he has decided are reality, and he has decided to 
have President Biden become something completely different than the 
person who ran for office last year or who served for decades in the 
U.S. Senate.
  In fact, if Joe Biden really believes that Joe Manchin and Kyrsten 
Sinema are bigots, why has he not called for them to be kicked out of 
his party? If they are as racist as Bull Connor and Jefferson Davis, 
why does Joe Biden want them in his party?
  The stuff he said in Georgia is nonsense, and you wouldn't say it to 
regular Americans in New Jersey or West Virginia or Arizona or Nebraska 
because it is not true.
  In fact, if Joe Biden really believes that Lisa Murkowski is George 
Wallace, if Tim Scott is Bull Connor, if Susan Collins and I are 
Jefferson Davis, I would hope he would have the guts to come and say it 
to our faces, but he will not because this is performative politics. It 
was nonsense, and everybody knows that it goes away after this weekend.
  But Chuck Schumer might have a primary from AOC, so it is really 
useful to shift the blame for his disastrous leadership of the Senate 
over the last 13 months from himself to Kyrsten Sinema and Joe Manchin. 
That is really what is happening right now.
  President Biden ought to have the courage to stand up to his own 
staff, and he ought to be enough of a man to apologize to the Senate 
and to the American people for the nonsense he said in Georgia. The 
vast majority of what he said in violating the Ninth Commandment and 
disparaging people was not what he really believes, and he wouldn't say 
it to me face-to-face. This fiasco was ugly, and it was entirely 
unnecessary.

  It makes no sense to federalize our elections right now. By the way, 
you can differ with me about that. You can believe that federalizing 
all elections is a good idea--it is in our constitutional system--but 
to demonize people as racist bigots because they are not in favor of 
federalizing the elections is a pretty bizarre leap.
  So let's just review a little bit of history. Last year, we had a 
President who disgraced his office by trying to steal an election. What 
stopped that? Our decentralized State-based systems of elections are 
what stopped last year's attempt to steal an election.
  It makes absolutely no sense to try to go into nuclear partisanship 
now when we should actually be talking about how you prevent another 
January 6 by doing the hard and actual bipartisan work--not the 
grandstanding for Twitter but the hard and bipartisan work of reforming 
the Electoral Count Act, which is 130 years old and obviously doesn't 
work that well. We should reform the Electoral Reform Act.
  This is about the subversion of an election, not the suppression. 
There are real problems in our electoral system, and we could be doing 
work to actually fix that and try to stop the institutional arsonists 
in Congress who want to build political brands on the wreckage of 
American institutions. We could do real work. The President decided to 
do something completely different this week.
  Here is the silver lining. President Biden, Leader Schumer, and 
everybody in this body know that the charade we have been going through 
for the last 3 days is great for the 1\1/2\ percent of people addicted 
to rage on Twitter. I get it. There are 1\1/2\ percent of people who 
get their jollies out of this. It is bad for America, and it is just as 
undermining of the public trust in elections as what Donald Trump did 
last year.
  But here is the thing: Everybody going through this charade knows 
that it dies this weekend. Why? Because Members of the Democrats' own 
conference know that there is no exception to the way the Senate rules 
work. Every single Senator knows that the filibuster is not going to 
die this weekend, and every Senator knows that, if it would, the 
nonsense rhetoric about one exception--it is like losing your virginity 
just once--is not really how it works. Once the filibuster goes for x, 
it goes for y, and it goes for z. Today, it is election centralization. 
Tomorrow, it is gun politics. The next day, it is climate debates. 
Every red-hot issue in American culture and American politics would be 
in the same exception because every issue would be just as urgent next 
week, next month, and next year.
  Fortunately, Senator Manchin knows this, Senator Sinema knows this, 
and by the way, a whole bunch more colleagues of mine in the Democratic 
Party also know this. They just don't have as much courage to say it in 
public as those two. A whole bunch of my colleagues--I tried to count 
this morning; it is between 15 and 18 of my colleagues in the 
Democratic Party--have privately told me they regret following Harry 
Reid over the tribalist cliff in the summer of 2013 for just the one 
exception of judicial confirmations to the DC Circuit Court of Appeals. 
I think 15 to 18 Democrats have privately told me they regret this. 
Why? Because that one-time exception is now how the entire Executive 
Calendar works. Everybody knew, when Harry Reid set this

[[Page S213]]

place on fire in 2013, that that was what it was going to produce and 
that the exact same thing would happen on the legislative calendar with 
the supposed one-time carve-out for the legislative filibuster.
  Let's remember what this institution is for. What the Senate is 
supposed to be about is we are supposed to be the one part of Congress 
and the one part of the American Government that thinks beyond a 24-
month window. It is the job of the people who serve in this body--only 
100 people right now and only, I think, 2,100 people across 230-some 
years of U.S. history. Only 2,000 people have had the honor of serving 
our States in this body. It is supposed to be our job to take the long-
term view, not just 24 hours of Twitter. We are supposed to think 
beyond the 24 months of the next election. That is what our job is 
supposed to be.
  There are a lot of people around this place who apparently can't 
think beyond 24 hours right now. That is their right, but they 
shouldn't be Senators because the purpose of this place is supposed to 
be to take a long-term view.
  Some of my colleagues are convinced that Americans are polarized 
because Congress doesn't act more or faster, and they think that the 
solution is, supposedly, to eliminate the filibuster. They are kidding 
themselves. That would not extinguish the fires of red-hot tribalism in 
this country. It would throw gasoline on them. Addressing the real 
tribal disease in America requires a Senate that becomes less tribal, 
not more tribal.
  Senator Sinema's speech should be commended to every Member of this 
body to go back and read. She said there are two fundamental questions 
before us today. One is, Where does the descent into tribalism in this 
institution ultimately land? And what can each of us do to stop that?
  Those are the two big questions that she said should be before us 
today.
  Getting rid of the filibuster means this: It means that you turn one 
razor-thin majority imposing its will on the American people and on 
legislation into a pendulum-swinging, another razor-thin majority, 24 
months later, that sweeps all of that aside and jerks the American 
people around to the opposite legislation of what was just passed 50-
50--51-50 in today's Senate. And all of it flips 11 months from now, 
and the legislation all gets undone, and new legislation gets put in 
place.
  Do you really think regular folks in New Jersey and Nebraska want 
that? Hardly any of them want that.
  Imagine what the current situation would look like if you have that 
federally imposed whiplash on our most sensitive issues inside every 24 
months. We think tribalism is bad now. I guarantee you can make it 
worse. And eliminating the filibuster accelerates that descent into 
tribalism.
  There is a place, of course, where simple majorities rule. It is 
right down that hallway. We have a House of Representatives already. 
Does anybody want to make the argument that that place is healthier 
than we are because it is a simple majoritarian body? No, it is plain 
to see, in an age of hyperpartisanship and social media grandstanding, 
that the House is being more and more ruled by demagogues and dolts. 
That is not what the Senate is called to do.
  The Senate is supposed to be a different place. The Senate is 
supposed to be the place where passions are tempered and refined by 
people who are responsible for thinking beyond our next election, which 
is why every election cycle in America only has one-third of Senators 
even up for reelection. That is the whole reason we have 6-year terms. 
If I had my will, I could be King for a day and write some 
constitutional amendments and pass them. I would have a single 12-year 
Senate term, and everybody would be out of here. It is a little bit 
longer than 6 years, but one term, no reelection, and get back to life, 
go back to serving in your community.
  If you get rid of the filibuster, you will turn the Senate into the 
House, and you will ensure that this body, too, ends up consumed by 
demagogues, conspiracists, and clowns. That is what will happen in this 
body. The American people don't have time for that crap. Nobody wants 
that.
  Americans don't want one-party rule, by the Democrats or by the 
Republicans. Both of these parties are really crappy. The American 
people are not fans of these political parties.
  Getting rid of the filibuster means you don't have to try to talk to 
people on the other side of the aisle and get to a 60-vote threshold 
for legislation or a 67-vote threshold for rules changes. It means that 
one of these two terrible parties gets to do a lot more stuff a lot 
faster that will inevitably be incredibly unpopular with the American 
people.
  The American people do not want revolution. They do not want 
fundamental change. What they want is competence. What they want is 
more honesty. What they want is less performative grandstanding.
  Institutions like the Senate provide frameworks and processes for 
competent, responsible self-government, for more honesty. We are not 
living up to it right now, but we could live down to something worse, 
and ending the filibuster would accelerate that. It would accelerate 
tribalism. It would accelerate people following Senators into 
bathrooms, screaming at them, trying to bully them. It will not lead to 
more productive, compromise legislation that tries to bring along a 
larger share of the American public.
  The rules and the norms of this place have been built up over a very 
long time, and they exist to discourage demagoguery. Putting cameras in 
every room we are in around here tries to undermine so much of what the 
Senate is about. I am for lots of transparency. I am for pen-and-pad 
reporters everywhere. But the cameras we have put in this place have 
encouraged so much demagoguery. That is so much of the problem of why 
we have so much tribalism here and tribalism more broadly in the 
country.
  And if you eliminate the filibuster, you accelerate all those most 
destructive, short-term performative trends. You encourage more rank 
partisanship, and you discourage consensus, compromise, and 
collaboration.
  Friends, please do not--like the President did in Georgia this week--
surrender to the angriest voices on social media in the mistaken belief 
that they reflect the majority of America. They don't. They reflect the 
majority of Twitter.
  Political Twitter is like the ninth most popular topic on Twitter. K-
pop music is exponentially more popular on Twitter than politics. The 
share of Americans paying attention to political Twitter bounces around 
between one-tenth and one-sixth. And something like 80 percent of all 
political tweets come from under 2 percent of the public. We should 
remind ourselves of that again, and again, and again, because there are 
people here who regularly mistake Twitter with reality and with the 
American public. We are called to serve the American public. We are not 
called to serve rage-addicted people on social media.
  Now, perhaps more than ever, it is our job to stop giving ear to 
political arsonists who would burn down our institutions and intensify 
our divisions. Now is the time for us to think together over the long-
term how we renew those institutions.
  The filibuster is a part of what can lead us to broader consensus, 
and eliminating the filibuster will accelerate the political arson 
around this place and across our land.
  Senate, we can do better.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 189 (Tuesday, December 6, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6974-S6975]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                         Tribute to Jim Gardner

  Mr. President, now to talk about another Jim--and I have been joined 
by Chris, Chris Coons, our Senator from the State of Delaware, and I am 
delighted to join Senator Coons and also our colleague in the House. We 
only have one congressional seat in the House, and it is filled by Lisa 
Blunt Rochester. We are all going to be talking--not today here on the 
floor--Senator Coons and I will be, but Lisa will be talking over in 
the House about Jim Gardner.
  Who is Jim Gardner? He is an icon. That is a word you hear a whole 
lot, but he is truly an icon. He is signing off the air after 40 years 
of delivering the news for WPVI-6abc, which really is the dominant, if 
you will, television station in the whole Delaware Valley, including 
Delaware and southeastern Pennsylvania, parts of Maryland, and parts of 
New Jersey as well.
  Jim has been delivering the news not just for that station, but he 
has been delivering the news for all of us, and one of the reasons why 
that station has enjoyed incredible ratings is in no small part because 
of his presence at the station. He has been a steady voice for viewers 
in the region, anchoring the 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. newscasts for as long 
as I can remember. Throughout that time, he earned the respect and he 
earned the trust of millions of viewers

[[Page S6975]]

who invited him into their homes on their televisions every night, 
including our home in Delaware.
  Jim's career was born before he even graduated college. He was 
attending Columbia University in the late 1960s. Our country was in 
turmoil over race and the Vietnam war--a war in which I served. His 
first ever report was on the historic student riots on campus. That 
gave him his first taste of broadcast journalism.
  He went on to report for a radio station--I think it was WINS Radio--
and then another station called WFAS and then WKBW-TV in New York City 
before making his way down south to join us in the Delaware Valley in 
1976, when he joined WPVI-TV as a reporter and as anchor for ``Action 
News at Noon.''
  Just shy of 1 year later, he became the anchor of the 6 o'clock news 
and the 11 o'clock broadcast, where he has been every night--every 
night--since, helping guide viewers through noteworthy events both 
globally and locally.
  Over the years, Jim's assignments included interviews. He has 
interviewed a lot of Presidents and folks who maybe aspire to be 
President. I don't. Among those are Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Ronald 
Reagan, George Herbert Walker Bush, George W. Bush, Bill Clinton, 
Barack Obama, Donald Trump, and a scrappy kid from Scranton who ended 
up as a Senator from Delaware, Joe Biden, who is now our President.
  Throughout the years, Jim has interviewed Philadelphia mayors--I 
can't count all the ones--from Frank Rizzo to Jim Kenney, and he has 
covered I think 21 political conventions. Think about that--21 
political conventions. There is a special place in Heaven for Jim 
Gardner for doing that, I will tell you.
  Locally, Jim was the narrating voice of our 2008 Phillies and 2018 
Eagles world championship parades, and those teams were really good 
this year as well. The Phillies made it all the way to the World 
Series, and the Eagles are knocking on the door to do something special 
in the NFL playoffs later this year.
  As the ``Action News'' opening song says ``Move closer to your 
world,'' he has also traveled abroad to help us understand some of the 
biggest stories in history--not just in Delaware, not just in the 
Delaware Valley, but across the world. He reported from the Vatican to 
cover the death of, for example, Pope Paul VI. He traveled to Germany 
to cover the return of American hostages from Iran. He reported from 
Russia and Lithuania after the fall of the Soviet Union. He covered the 
Oslo Accords from Israel and from the West Bank. He traveled to Cuba to 
cover Pope John Paul II and then went to Argentina to report on the 
life of Pope Francis.

  Perhaps what has allowed Jim to hold the trust of his viewers while 
engaging his audience night after night is that no matter where he has 
traveled--no matter where he has traveled--he understands that what 
matters to his viewers most can be found right in our own backyards, 
community events, at school board and town council meetings, houses of 
worship, and by talking to our neighbors.
  It is with great pleasure that we rise on behalf of Delaware's 
congressional delegation to honor the exemplary career of Jim Gardner.
  I want to say, Jim, to you and your family, congratulations on a job 
well done. We want to convey our thanks to your wife Amy--there is a 
special place in Heaven for her and for our spouses as well--and to 
your four children for sharing their dad with us and the people of our 
region of America. Delaware Valley is a better place because of you. 
God bless. Godspeed.
  With that, I am pleased to yield to my wingman from Delaware.
  Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I join my colleague from our home State of 
Delaware in ensuring that Jim Gardner's four decades of leadership in 
our community, in our local news, and in laying down a marker for what 
it means to be a real journalist, a trusted and loyal and important 
part of community leadership--that his service will be remembered and 
recognized in the Congressional Record.
  Jim Gardner, as my colleague laid out in great detail, born and 
raised in New York City, turned on to journalism as a student at 
Columbia University by reporting on the historic Columbia riots in 1968 
and then began his remarkable run with WPVI-TV Philadelphia on June 1, 
1976.
  I have had the honor of being in the newsroom and talking with Jim as 
he has prepared for a broadcast, of getting a sense of just how good 
and balanced and thoughtful a journalistic leader he is.
  For all of us, it is a real loss that, four decades later, Jim has 
anchored his last regularly scheduled 11 p.m. broadcast. He is still 
anchoring the 6 p.m. news.
  I will tell you, Jim, my wife Annie and I love watching you. You have 
given us a sense of continuity, of community, and of character in our 
local news, unmatched in so many other communities around our country. 
You are a genuine treasure, a jewel of the Delaware Valley, and we will 
miss you deeply. You have interviewed Popes and Presidents, local 
elected officials and international leaders. You have contributed to 
our understanding of our place in the world and brought us closer 
together.
  I just wanted to say to you personally, congratulations on your 
retirement. I know that you will get to spend more time with Josh, 
Jenn, Emily, and Jesse, and your grandson Henry.
  Thank you to Amy.
  As my colleague and friend Tom Carper said, it is our spouses who 
often experience the highs and the lows of our public service, and I 
know your family has supported you through this remarkable work.
  It would be impossible to list all the stories that you reported on 
or contributed to, but know, Jim, that you have left a lasting legacy 
in the hearts of the millions of people who have watched you over 
decades and felt that they were brought a little bit closer to their 
world.
  Thank you, and we look forward to recognizing you in the Record of 
the United States Senate.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Padilla). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 3 (Wednesday, January 5, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S28-S30]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                   Recognition of the Majority Leader

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader is recognized.


                        Anniversary of January 6

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, earlier this morning, I had the 
opportunity to join my colleagues in the Senate Rules Committee for a 
hearing on the progress our Capitol has made to increase the security 
of this complex in the aftermath of January 6.
  We heard testimony from U.S. Capitol Chief of Police Thomas Manger, 
who in his first 6 months has done an outstanding job to make this 
building safer and better prepared for the sorts of horrors that befell 
this hallowed space only 1 year ago this week.
  That day, on January 6, 2021, the men and women of our Capitol Police 
stood on the frontlines of the unimaginable: a violent assault upon the 
U.S. Capitol instigated by former President Trump and carried out by a 
mob of radicals looking to halt the peaceful transfer of power. That 
day, our Capitol policemen were outnumbered and underequipped. Yet 
their bravery and quick thinking saved many lives and prevented a 
violent riot from becoming something even worse. Today, we honor all 
those who stepped up that day, especially those whom we have lost in 
the aftermath.
  In the year since that attack, we have gotten a lot of things done in 
the Senate to strengthen our Capitol Police Force, to ensure from a 
security

[[Page S29]]

standpoint that the violence of that day never happens again. Thanks to 
this work and to the new leadership of the Capitol Police, the U.S. 
Capitol today is undoubtedly considerably safer than it was a year ago.
  But let's be clear. Let's be very clear. January 6 was not merely a 
senseless act of violence; it was an attempt to reverse through violent 
means the outcome of a free and a fair election. And make no mistake, 
the root cause of January 6 is still with us today. It lives on through 
the Big Lie pushed by Donald Trump that is undermining faith in our 
political system and making our country and our democracy less safe.
  A year after January 6, the biggest threat to our Capitol, our 
Capitol Police, and our democracy today is the Big Lie perpetrated by 
Donald Trump. Without addressing the root causes of the event of 
January 6, the insurrection will not be an aberration; it could well 
become the norm.
  Just like the Senate has the power to pass legislation supporting our 
Capitol Police Force, we have the same power and obligation to pass 
legislation to address these root causes that brought the Big Lie to 
life. That is what my Senate colleagues and I are focused on and are 
committed to doing. We must act.
  More than any other point in recent history, threats of political 
violence are on the rise. Election administrators are facing harassment 
and even death threats for just carrying out their duties. These are 
people who are sort of like civil servants. They are simply in charge 
of making sure the vote is counted fairly and accurately. In many 
States like mine, they are bipartisan. In some States, they are 
nonpartisan. But they are simply doing a job to make sure that the vote 
is counted correctly. Yet there are death threats against them for 
doing just that. By one measure, nearly one-third of these election 
officials say they feel less safe on the job, and many are quitting in 
fear of their safety.
  All of us have a role to play to protect our democratic system--
everyone from our Capitol Police to the voting public, to those of us 
entrusted to serve in elected office.
  Mr. President, just as the Capitol Police have taken the experience 
of January 6 to institute reforms for the future, every Member of the 
U.S. Senate is called to do the same, to reckon with the lessons of 
that terrible day and take action to cure America of the disease of the 
Big Lie. That means passing legislation to protect our democracy from 
subversion and safeguard the right to vote, including the John Lewis 
Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act.
  Last year, Senate Democrats tried multiple times to get voting rights 
passed with bipartisan cooperation. Many of us--especially my colleague 
Senator Manchin--tried in good faith to bring the other side to the 
table. But every single time, Republicans mounted a partisan filibuster 
to stop this Chamber from even having a debate on these measures.

  By now, Republicans have made it abundantly clear that bipartisanship 
is not an option when it comes to voting rights. That is against the 
grand tradition where the Voting Rights Act had gotten the support of 
President Reagan and President H. W. Bush and President Bush and got 
large bipartisan margins when it was renewed in the past. That is not 
true anymore. This is a new Republican Party under Donald Trump, and 
they are opposing any attempt--any attempt--to strengthen voting 
rights.
  If this continues, the only option left for Democrats is to explore 
and propose reasonable fixes to restore the Senate so we can get these 
critical pieces of legislation passed into law. We will consider 
proposals to restore the Senate on or before January 17.
  The Republican leader has wasted no opportunity to criticize any 
discussion--even a discussion--on how Members of this body can act to 
restore the Senate to its proper function. Mere moments ago, the 
Republican leader strangely suggested that to make this Chamber better 
debate, compromise, and pass legislation somehow equates to breaking 
the Senate. He criticized the idea that Democrats would go at it alone. 
But I would remind everyone that when Leader McConnell and Republicans 
were in the majority, they used their simple majority for almost every 
major initiative they wished to put in place: the repeal of the 
Affordable Care Act, passing a multitrillion-dollar tax break for the 
ultrarich, and installing three rightwing Supreme Court Justices. They 
were happy to change the rules if it meant getting their picks 
confirmed to the Court.
  So let's stop the crocodile tears right here and right now. The 
asymmetry cannot hold. If Senate Republicans continue to abuse the 
filibuster to prevent this body from acting, the Senate must adapt. 
Just as Robert C. Byrd said, when circumstances change, the rules 
should change.
  There is no better way to heal the damage of January 6 than to act so 
that our constitutional order is preserved for the future. We must do 
so by any means that we can, even if it means Democrats find 
alternative paths forward on our own. For the sake of the vision handed 
down to us by the Framers, Democrats are going to continue this work in 
the weeks to come.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority whip.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, November 9, 2020, was the first day that 
the Senate was in session following the Presidential election that 
year. Six days had passed since the polls had closed. It had been 2 
days since enough votes were tallied for the Associated Press and TV 
networks, including FOX, to conclude that Joe Biden was elected 
President of the United States. But inside the White House, former 
President Donald Trump was busy. He was tweeting a torrent of lies and 
conspiracy theories to deny the obvious. He was ready to pull the White 
House and the people's house, this U.S. Capitol, down around him in 
order to overturn an election he had lost.
  Never before--never in the history of the United States--has a 
President or Presidential candidate shown such utter contempt for the 
will of the American people or for the peaceful transition of power in 
a democracy. Yet, when the Senate convened 6 days after the election, 
some of our Republican colleagues actually offered excuses for the poor 
feelings and the attitude and the demeanor of the former President and 
his incendiary actions.
  The Republican Senate leader, who was on the floor a few minutes ago, 
defended President Trump at that time, saying that he was ``100 percent 
within his right to pursue recounts and litigation.''
  Never mind that the lawsuits were based on the same lies that former 
President Trump was spewing. Over the next few weeks, those lawsuits 
were initiated.
  What was the final score? So 64 of the 65 legal challenges brought by 
the Trump campaign to dismiss the results of the election were 
dismissed themselves as meritless, many by judges that Donald Trump had 
appointed.
  Also on November 9, a person identified only as ``a senior Republican 
official'' told a Washington Post reporter something that is chilling. 
Speaking about the defeated President Trump lashing out with poisonous 
lies and conspiracy theories, this nameless Republican asked: ``Well, 
what's the downside for humoring him for a little bit of time? No one 
seriously thinks the results will change.''
  This unnamed Republican official went on to say: ``He went golfing 
this weekend. It's not like he's plotting how to prevent Joe Biden from 
taking power on January 20. He's tweeting about filing some lawsuits. 
The lawsuits will fail, then he'll tweet some more on how the election 
was stolen, then he'll leave.''
  That was the Republican attitude toward President Trump after the 
election results were in. In fact, we know now that plotting to prevent 
Joe Biden from taking power on January 20 was exactly what Donald Trump 
was up to. He abused the powers of his office to exert extraordinary 
pressure on the Justice Department.
  I know this because I was in the actual deposition in the Judiciary 
Committee, which I chair, when those in the Justice Department who were 
contacted by the President for this purpose testified under oath.
  Politicians and elected officials in key States were also contacted 
by President Trump. And the Vice President was drawn into the 
President's plans to nullify an American election. We came perilously 
close to losing our democracy at that point.

[[Page S30]]

  It survives today only because men and women of conscience--Democrats 
and Republicans--refused to cooperate with the former President.
  As it became apparent that he could not contort the bureaucracy to 
nullify the election, and it wasn't working in the courts either, 
Donald Trump turned to a weapon--a desperate weapon--seldom used in 
American history: political violence.
  On December 19, 2020, Trump tweeted: ``Big protest in DC on January 
6. Be there. WILL BE WILD!''
  That was one of the several tweets he sent out summoning his 
followers to Washington.
  On January 5, 2021, a year ago today, Steve Bannon, once one of 
Trump's chief strategists, then discarded, then embraced--I can't keep 
track--he is now back in the Trump fold. He used his podcast on that 
day, a year ago today, to telegraph the chaos that was going to erupt 
the next day.
  Steve Bannon told his listeners: ``We're going into something that's 
never happened before in American history,'' he said that a year ago, 
``It's not going to happen like you think it's going to happen. Okay, 
it's going to be quite extraordinarily different.''
  Bannon said: ``All I can say is strap in. . . . It's all converging, 
and now we're on the point of attack tomorrow.''
  That is a quote from Steve Bannon, a year ago today, about January 6, 
2021. I don't have to remind anyone what happened that day. Many of us 
lived it. Some may try to downplay it or deny it was any threat. They 
know better. They know the truth.
  If you were sitting in this Chamber, with Vice President Pence 
sitting in your chair, preparing to count the electoral vote to 
determine the President of the United States, and you noted the Vice 
President's staff come roaring through that door, reach up and grab him 
by the arms, and pull him off the podium where you are now sitting--
people were dumbstruck. They couldn't imagine what was going on here 
for a moment. And then to have a member of the Capitol Police come 
before us and stand where you are seated and to announce that this was 
going to be the safe room in the Capitol--they were going to start 
bringing staff members in to line the backs of the floor here because 
this was a safe place to be, and we should just sit tight and be quiet.
  Well, then we started hearing the roar outside, as the mob was 
descending on this building. And within 10 minutes, another member of 
the Capitol Police stood where you are sitting right now and said: 
Evacuate the Chamber as quickly as possible. Leave through these doors 
in an orderly fashion.
  That was the reality of life in the Capitol and the business of the 
Senate when the mob--the Trump mob--descended on January 6. We saw what 
happened. Many of us left and had to follow it by videos that were 
taken and photos later of people who were assaulted. When it was all 
over, five people died, and 140 members of law enforcement were 
assaulted and victimized and physically attacked.
  Those who dismiss it or don't want to talk about it on the floor have 
to accept the reality; the reality was there was death and violence 
against law enforcement officials that day. And the notion that somehow 
all of these people carrying Trump signs and banners were actually 
Democrats--what were they thinking? To believe that for a moment is to 
be totally deluded when it comes to the truth.
  So what has happened since? The largest criminal prosecution in the 
history of the United States has ensued. All of those videotapes that 
were taken by the participants and others in the course of this 
insurrectionist mob have been used to establish evidence to bring 
criminal charges against more than 700 individuals, some of whom are 
already serving time in prison for what they did that day, and it is 
not over. It is anticipated that another 300 will be charged, some with 
even more serious crimes.
  This was no minor incident or, as a Republican Congressman from 
Georgia said, ``just tourists visiting the Capitol.'' No, it was a 
deadly moment. People died as a result of what happened that day. 
People have been changed forever as a result of what happened that day. 
It was for real.
  Today, the windows and furniture that were shattered by the rioters 
have been replaced. The National Guard members have gone home. Thank 
goodness the security fence around the Capitol is finally down, but 
there are many invisible scars from January 6. Five police officers who 
battled the mob died. More than 140 were wounded.
  And the Big Lie of the stolen election that Trump used to summon his 
mob continues to metastasize. Over the last year, Republican lawmakers 
across the country have used this Big Lie as a pretext to pass laws to 
make it more difficult for Americans to vote.
  The Republican leader came to the floor and said 94 percent of the 
people who voted in the last Presidential election said it was easy. 
Well, I am sure that is true. It was the largest turnout since 1900.

  But what has happened in almost 20 states since then? Those State 
legislatures controlled by the Republican Party have tried to make it 
more difficult in the next election for the same people to vote. That 
is a fact.
  And Americans now distrust our elections. More now believe that 
political violence is acceptable, and that has to change. Our democracy 
cannot endure with these cancers spreading.
  Abraham Lincoln called American democracy ``the last best hope on 
Earth.'' This last year has taught us that it may be the last best 
hope, but it is fragile. Our generation--every generation--has to be 
willing to fight to protect it. For the sake of our forbearers, who 
gave us this democracy, and for our children and grandchildren, who 
will inherit its future, I am begging my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle to condemn what happened in this Chamber on January 6, 2021, 
and to make it clear, once and for all, on a bipartisan basis that we 
stand together, united, for this democracy to succeed.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Republican whip.
  Mr. THUNE. I ask unanimous consent that I be able to complete my 
remarks before the vote gets underway.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection.

[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4343 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4343

To require any convention, agreement, or other international instrument 
on pandemic prevention, preparedness, and response reached by the World 
         Health Assembly to be subject to Senate ratification.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 26, 2022

  Mr. Johnson (for himself, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Braun, Mr. Cotton, Mr. 
Cruz, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Hagerty, Mr. Hoeven, Mrs. Hyde-Smith, Mr. Lee, 
  Mr. Marshall, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Scott of Florida, Mr. Tuberville, Mr. 
 Daines, and Mr. Tillis) introduced the following bill; which was read 
        twice and referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require any convention, agreement, or other international instrument 
on pandemic prevention, preparedness, and response reached by the World 
         Health Assembly to be subject to Senate ratification.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``No WHO Pandemic Preparedness Treaty 
Without Senate Approval Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On May 18, 2020, President Donald Trump sent a letter 
        to World Health Organization (referred to in this Act as 
        ``WHO'') Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (referred 
        to in this Act as the ``Director-General''), announcing that--
                    (A) United States contributions to WHO would be 
                halted due its mismanagement of the COVID-19 outbreak 
                and its lack of independence from the People's Republic 
                of China; and
                    (B) the United States would withdraw from WHO if it 
                did not commit to substantive improvements within 30 
                days.
            (2) President Trump's May 18 letter cited numerous 
        instances of WHO mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
        including--
                    (A) unjustified delays informing member states 
                about a potentially serious disease outbreak in Wuhan, 
                China; and
                    (B) repeated grossly inaccurate or misleading 
                claims about the transmissibility of the virus and 
                about the Government of China's handling of the 
                outbreak.
            (3) On June 30, 2020, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo 
        formally notified the United Nations of the United States 
        decision to withdraw from WHO, which would have taken effect on 
        July 6, 2021, under the terms of a joint resolution adopted by 
        Congress on June 14, 1948 (Public Law 80-643; 62 Stat. 441).
            (4) A Pew Research Center survey conducted in April and May 
        2020 indicated that 51 percent of Americans felt that WHO had 
        done a poor or fair job in managing the COVID-19 pandemic.
            (5) On January 20, 2021, President Joseph Biden sent United 
        Nations Director-General Antonio Guterres a letter retracting 
        the United States notice of withdrawal from WHO.
            (6) On December 1, 2021, at the second special session of 
        the World Health Assembly (referred to in this Act as the 
        ``WHA'') decided--
                    (A) ``to establish . . . an intergovernmental 
                negotiating body . . . (the `INB') to draft and 
                negotiate a WHO convention, agreement or other 
                international instrument on pandemic prevention, 
                preparedness and response, with a view to adoption 
                under Article 19, or under other provisions of the WHO 
                Constitution . . . .''; and
                    (B) that the INB shall submit a progress report to 
                the Seventy-sixth WHA and a working draft of the 
                convention for consideration by the Seventy-seventh 
                WHA, which is scheduled to take place beginning on 
                March 18, 2024.
            (7) On February 24 and March 14 and 15, 2022, the INB held 
        its inaugural meeting at which the Director-General proposed 
        the following 5 themes to guide the INB's work in drafting the 
        Convention:
                    (A) Building national, regional, and global 
                capacities based on a whole-of-government and whole-of-
                society approach.
                    (B) Establishing global access and benefit sharing 
                for all pathogens, and determining a global policy for 
                the equitable production and distribution of 
                countermeasures.
                    (C) Establishing robust systems and tools for 
                pandemic preparedness and response.
                    (D) Establishing a long-term plan for sustainable 
                financing to ensure support for global health threat 
                management and response systems.
                    (E) Empowering WHO to fulfill its mandate as the 
                directing and coordinating authority on international 
                health work, including for pandemic preparedness and 
                response.
            (8) Section 723.3 of title 11 of the Department of State's 
        Foreign Affairs Manual states that when ``determining whether 
        any international agreement should be brought into force as a 
        treaty or as an international agreement other than a treaty, 
        the utmost care is to be exercised to avoid any invasion or 
        compromise of the constitutional powers of the President, the 
        Senate, and the Congress as a whole'' and includes the 
        following criteria to be considered when determining whether an 
        international agreement should take the form of a treaty or an 
        executive agreement:
                    (A) ``The extent to which the agreement involves 
                commitments or risks affecting the nation as a whole''.
                    (B) ``Whether the agreement is intended to affect 
                state laws''.
                    (C) ``Whether the agreement can be given effect 
                without the enactment of subsequent legislation by the 
                Congress''.
                    (D) ``Past U.S. practice as to similar 
                agreements''.
                    (E) ``The preference of the Congress as to a 
                particular type of agreement''.
                    (F) ``The degree of formality desired for an 
                agreement''.
                    (G) ``The proposed duration of the agreement, the 
                need for prompt conclusion of an agreement, and the 
                desirability of concluding a routine or short-term 
                agreement''.
                    (H) ``The general international practice as to 
                similar agreements''.

SEC. 3. SENSE OF THE SENATE.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) a significant segment of the American public is deeply 
        skeptical of the World Health Organization, its leadership, and 
        its independence from the pernicious political influence of 
        certain member states, including the People's Republic of 
        China;
            (2) the Senate strongly prefers that any agreement related 
        to pandemic prevention, preparedness, and response adopted by 
        the World Health Assembly pursuant to the work of the INB be 
        considered a treaty requiring the advice and consent of the 
        Senate, with two-thirds of Senators concurring;
            (3) the scope of the agreement which the INB has been 
        tasked with drafting, as outlined by the Director-General, is 
        so broad that any application of the factors referred to in 
        section 2(8) will weigh strongly in favor of it being 
        considered a treaty; and
            (4) given the level of public distrust, any relevant new 
        agreement by the World Health Assembly which cannot garner the 
        two-thirds vote needed for Senate ratification should not be 
        agreed to or implemented by the United States.

SEC. 4. ANY WORLD HEALTH AGENCY CONVENTION OR AGREEMENT OR OTHER 
              INTERNATIONAL INSTRUMENT RESULTING FROM THE INTERNATIONAL 
              NEGOTIATING BODY'S FINAL REPORT DEEMED TO BE A TREATY 
              SUBJECT TO ADVICE AND CONSENT OF THE SENATE.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any convention, 
agreement, or other international instrument on pandemic prevention, 
preparedness, and response reached by the World Health Assembly 
pursuant to the recommendations, report, or work of the International 
Negotiating Body established by the second special session of the World 
Health Assembly is deemed to be a treaty that is subject to the 
requirements of article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of 
the United States, which requires the advice and consent of the Senate, 
with two-thirds of Senators concurring.
                                 <all>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4450 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4450

 To provide the President with authority to enter into a comprehensive 
    trade agreement with the United Kingdom, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 22, 2022

Mr. Portman (for himself and Mr. Coons) introduced the following bill; 
     which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide the President with authority to enter into a comprehensive 
    trade agreement with the United Kingdom, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Securing Privileged Economic, 
Commercial, Investment, And Legal Rights to Ensure Longstanding 
Atlantic Trade and Investment Opportunities and Nurture Security, 
Happiness, Innovation, and Prosperity Act'' or the ``SPECIAL 
RELATIONSHIP Act''.

SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) more open trade and investment relationships with 
        allies of the United States serve to strengthen the economy of 
        the United States, improve the well-being of the people of the 
        United States, and advance the strategic interests of the 
        United States;
            (2) agreements to reduce or eliminate barriers to trade and 
        investment between the United States and its allies will foster 
        mutually beneficial economic relationships that advance the 
        economic interests of workers, farmers, ranchers, and 
        businesses of all sizes in the United States;
            (3) the shared values and long history of the ``special 
        relationship'' between the United States and the United Kingdom 
        present an opportunity to deepen the mutually beneficial 
        economic relationship between those countries and further 
        expand prosperity for the citizens of those countries;
            (4) a high-standard, comprehensive trade agreement between 
        the United States and the United Kingdom would help achieve 
        those aims and be in the national interest of the United 
        States;
            (5) the efforts of the United States-United Kingdom Trade 
        and Investment Working Group and the bilateral negotiations 
        initiated by President Donald Trump have laid groundwork toward 
        a comprehensive trade agreement;
            (6) The United States-United Kingdom Dialogue on the Future 
        of Atlantic Trade initiated by President Joe Biden continues 
        longstanding efforts to improve economic cooperation between 
        the United States and the United Kingdom;
            (7) the robust labor and environmental protections in the 
        United Kingdom reduce the risk of regulatory arbitrage that 
        undercuts workers and businesses in the United States;
            (8) the USMCA, which was passed with overwhelming 
        bipartisan support, set high standards in North America with 
        respect to labor rights, the environment, intellectual 
        property, non-market practices, and services, and those 
        standards should inform future negotiations;
            (9) trade agreements with foreign trading partners that 
        share the values and ambition of the United States offer an 
        opportunity to build on the USMCA and set high international 
        standards across many important policy areas;
            (10) any trade agreement between the United States and the 
        United Kingdom must uphold the agreement between the Government 
        of Ireland and the Government of the United Kingdom signed on 
        April 10, 1998 (commonly known as the ``Good Friday 
        Agreement''), and support continued peace and stability in 
        Ireland and Northern Ireland; and
            (11) to effectively pursue comprehensive trade negotiations 
        with the United Kingdom for purposes of a trade agreement 
        between the United States and the United Kingdom, Congress must 
        grant new negotiating authority to the President, which 
        should--
                    (A) enable the swift negotiation and passage 
                through Congress of such an agreement; and
                    (B) be narrowly tailored to provide clear direction 
                to the executive branch of the United States 
                Government.
    (b) USMCA Defined.--In this section, the term ``USMCA'' means the 
Agreement between the United States of America, the United Mexican 
States, and Canada, which is--
            (1) attached as an Annex to the Protocol Replacing the 
        North American Free Trade Agreement with the Agreement between 
        the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and 
        Canada, done at Buenos Aires on November 30, 2018, as amended 
        by the Protocol of Amendment to the Agreement Between the 
        United States of America, the United Mexican States, and 
        Canada, done at Mexico City on December 10, 2019; and
            (2) approved by Congress under section 101(a)(1) of the 
        United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act (19 
        U.S.C. 4511(a)).

SEC. 3. NEGOTIATING AND TRADE AGREEMENTS AUTHORITY FOR COMPREHENSIVE 
              AGREEMENT WITH THE UNITED KINGDOM.

    (a) Initiation of Negotiations.--In order to enhance the economic 
well-being of the United States, the President shall initiate 
negotiations with the United Kingdom regarding tariff and nontariff 
barriers affecting any industry, product, or service sector.
    (b) Authority for Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--To strengthen the economic competitiveness 
        of the United States, the President may enter into a 
        comprehensive trade agreement with the United Kingdom regarding 
        tariff and nontariff barriers affecting any industry, product, 
        or service sector.
            (2) Termination of authority.--The authority under 
        paragraph (1) terminates on July 1, 2027.
    (c) Modifications Permitted.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the President 
        may proclaim such modification or continuance of any existing 
        duty, continuance of existing duty-free or excise treatment, or 
        such additional duties as the President determines to be 
        required or appropriate to carry out an agreement entered into 
        under subsection (b).
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A) Modifications or additions to agreement.--
                Substantial modifications to, or substantial additional 
                provisions of, an agreement entered into after July 1, 
                2027, are not covered by the authority under paragraph 
                (1).
                    (B) Amount of duty modification.--No proclamation 
                may be made under paragraph (1) that--
                            (i) reduces any rate of duty (other than a 
                        rate of duty that does not exceed 5 percent ad 
                        valorem on the date of the enactment of this 
                        Act) to a rate of duty that is less than 50 
                        percent of the rate of such duty that applies 
                        on such date of enactment;
                            (ii) reduces the rate of duty below that 
                        applicable under the Uruguay Round Agreements 
                        (as defined in section 2(7) of the Uruguay 
                        Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3501)) or a 
                        successor agreement, on any import sensitive 
                        agricultural product; or
                            (iii) increases any rate of duty above the 
                        rate that applied on the date of the enactment 
                        of this Act.
    (d) Consultation With and Notification to Congress.--The President 
shall consult with Congress regarding, and notify Congress of, the 
intention of the President to enter into an agreement under subsection 
(b) or to make a proclamation under subsection (c).
    (e) Bills Qualifying for Trade Authorities Procedures.--
            (1) Implementing bills.--
                    (A) In general.--The provisions of section 151 of 
                the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2191) apply to a bill 
                of either House of Congress that contains provisions 
                described in subparagraph (B) to the same extent as 
                such section 151 applies to implementing bills under 
                that section. A bill to which this paragraph applies 
                shall hereafter in this section be referred to as an 
                ``implementing bill''.
                    (B) Provisions specified.--The provisions described 
                in this subparagraph are--
                            (i) a provision approving a trade agreement 
                        entered into under this section and approving 
                        the statement of administrative action, if any, 
                        proposed to implement such trade agreement; and
                            (ii) if changes in existing laws or new 
                        statutory authority are required to implement 
                        such trade agreement, only such provisions as 
                        are strictly necessary or appropriate to 
                        implement such trade agreement, either 
                        repealing or amending existing laws or 
                        providing new statutory authority.
            (2) Deadline for submission of bill.--The procedures under 
        paragraph (1) apply to implementing bills submitted with 
        respect to a trade agreement entered into under this section 
        before July 1, 2027.
    (f) Limitation on Termination.--An agreement entered into under 
this section shall not terminate with respect to the United States 
without the express approval by Congress of such termination.
    (g) Relationship to Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and 
Accountability Act of 2015.--An agreement under this section shall not 
enter into force with respect to the United States and an implementing 
bill shall not qualify for trade authorities procedures under 
subsection (e), including an agreement that does not require changes to 
United States law or an implementing bill in connection therewith, 
unless the following requirements under the Bipartisan Congressional 
Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4201 et 
seq.) are carried out with respect to that agreement or implementing 
bill to the same extent as would be required of an agreement entered 
into under section 103(b) of that Act (19 U.S.C. 4202(b)), 
notwithstanding the expiration of authority to enter into an agreement 
under such section 103(b):
            (1) The trade negotiating objectives under section 102 of 
        that Act (19 U.S.C. 4201).
            (2) The congressional oversight and consultation 
        requirements under section 104 of that Act (19 U.S.C. 4203).
            (3) The notification, consultation, and reporting 
        requirements under section 105 of that Act (19 U.S.C. 4204).
            (4) The implementation procedures under section 106 of that 
        Act (19 U.S.C. 4205).
            (5) The provisions related to sovereignty under section 108 
        of that Act (19 U.S.C. 4207).
                                 <all>
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 20, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S9623-S9624]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO RETIRING SENATORS

  Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, the end of every Congress brings with it 
the reality that fellow colleagues in the Senate will no longer serve 
with us when the new Congress convenes in January. As we rush to 
complete the work of this Congress and in our eagerness to return home 
to spend time with our families for the holidays, it is important that 
we pause to thank departing Members for their years of public service 
to their constituents and to the country. On December 15, I spoke on 
the floor to commend the Senate service of my fellow Pennsylvanian, 
Senator Pat Toomey.
  Senator Pat Leahy of Vermont has served nearly 48 years in the 
Senate, and his list of accomplishments is as long as his tenure. I 
first got to know Senator Leahy when I was a new Senator and a junior 
member of the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Foresty, a 
committee that Senator Leahy once chaired. I was able to work with him 
and learn from him about all issues related to the dairy farming, which 
is of particular importance to both Vermont and my home State of 
Pennsylvania. Senator Leahy is also known, among other things, for his 
fierce commitment to human rights around the world, his long-time work 
advancing the cause of justice on the Judiciary Committee, his 
outstanding work on the Appropriations Committee, his fierce defense of 
the Senate as an institution, and, most of all, as the greatest 
advocate for the people of Vermont that the State has ever known. He 
has also found time for his personal passion of photography and to 
appear in five Batman movies. The Senate as an institution and I 
personally will miss serving with Pat. My

[[Page S9624]]

wife Terese and I have been blessed by our friendship with Pat and his 
wife Marcelle.
  The end of this Congress also marks the end of Senator Richard Burr's 
time in the Senate. I have worked with Senator Burr on the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, on which we both sit. We have 
found common ground on a number of issues, most notably our shared 
interest in bio-defense and pandemic preparedness, upon which we have 
worked jointly for years. We led the effort in the Senate to pass the 
ABLE bill in 2014, which allows people with disabilities and their 
families to save for care and accommodations related to their 
disabilities. We also worked to advance out of committee a bipartisan 
pregnancy discrimination bill, which I still hope to get over the 
finish line this week. We have also disagreed at times, for example, 
when we both advocated for our respective States to receive critical 
title I education funding. I also served with Senator Burr on the 
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence where, as the senior Republican 
on the committee, he helped to steer the committee through the 
treacherous waters of the Russia report detailing Russia's efforts to 
interfere in the 2016 election and to aid Donald Trump's candidacy. 
Even when the elements of his own party pressured him to do otherwise, 
Senator Burr stood up for American democracy and put country before 
party.
  Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri is also retiring. In agreement or 
disagreement, Senator Blunt has been an honest broker, one who worked 
to try and find common ground and who was honest when he could not. In 
the past year, he and I have worked successfully to sort through some 
challenging issues related to pregnancy discrimination and the 
Congressional Accountability Act. The details of the legislation here 
are not as pertinent here as the manner in which he engaged in the 
issue--respectfully, substantively, and productively. He and I have 
also worked together on adoption issues for many years and together 
lead a bill to make the Adoption Tax Credit refundable, which allows 
many more low-income families to benefit. He has been an excellent 
partner in that effort. I regret that we have not been able to enact 
that bill into law prior to his retirement, but I will continue to seek 
its passage in the coming Congress. Finally, Roy and I have worked for 
years to build and repair bridges in smaller, rural areas of our 
respective States by allocating additional funds to so-called off-
system bridges.
  I did not have the privilege of working with Senator Richard Shelby 
of Alabama when he was a member of the Democratic Caucus in the 1980s, 
before my time in the Senate. Regardless, Senator Shelby and I have 
been neighbors on the third floor of the Russell Senate Office 
Building, which means that we often find ourselves walking to vote on 
the Senate floor at around the same time. Early in my career, I found 
myself delivering to Senator Shelby's office a box of ice cream from 
the legendary Creamery at Penn State, the result of lost bet between 
Penn State and the top-ranked Alabama football team in 2010. Most 
recently, Senator Shelby was critical to bringing back the ability of 
Senators to advocate for community projects in their home State through 
the appropriations process. As the senior Republican on the 
Appropriations Committee, Senator Shelby has been unwavering in his 
belief that Senators understand the critical needs of their communities 
and should have the opportunity to advocate for them. Due to Senator 
Shelby's efforts to bring back congressionally directed spending and my 
advocacy for worthy projects throughout Pennsylvania, communities large 
and small are addressing critical local needs, from early childhood to 
infrastructure to healthcare, among others.
  Senator Rob Portman of Ohio is also retiring from the Senate this 
year. Ohio shares a border with Pennsylvania, and, not surprisingly, we 
share many of the same concerns. For example, we both believe in the 
critical importance of our manufacturing base to the American economy 
and the need to support the workers upon whom our manufacturing might 
is built. We have both been critical of China and its efforts to 
undermine the American manufacturers and workers, especially in the 
case of steel production. Senator Portman and I have partnered to 
protect some of the last American manufacturers of electrical steel 
from deliberate Chinese market distortion. I have also worked with 
Senator Portman and his fellow Ohioan Senator Sherrod Brown on several 
iterations of legislation called Leveling the Playing Field to help 
manufacturers respond to unfair market competition from China and 
Chinese enterprises operating under the protection of the Chinese 
Government. I also want to note that Senator Portman and I have a 
shared interest in children's mental health and teamed up recently on 
S. 4757, the Investing in Kids' Mental Health Now Act, a bill to 
increase the availability of mental health resources for children.
  Finally, I wish to note the departure of Senator Jim Inhofe of 
Oklahoma from the Senate. A member of the Senate since 1994, Senator 
Inhofe is known first and foremost as a champion of our military and 
the men and women who serve our nation. He has served on the Senate 
Armed Services Committee capably for decades, most recently as the 
senior Republican on the panel. This year, we honored Senator Inhofe by 
naming the annual defense authorization bill after him. I am especially 
grateful to Senator Inhofe and the Armed Services Committee for 
including the Global Food Security Act in the FY23 Defense 
authorization bill, which will strengthen our country's effort to 
promote food security around the world and also fight extremism and 
political unrest around the world. This good national security bill is 
one of many ways in which Senator Inhofe's leadership on issues related 
to the continent of Africa will continue far after his retirement, as 
16 of the 20 countries targeted by the Global Food Security Act's 
development program are in Africa. Senator Inhofe and I also share a 
deep concern for the brave Afghans seeking freedom from the Taliban and 
recently joined together to write to the Biden administration urging it 
to do all that it could to assist with the evacuation of the students 
and guardians of the Marefat School, the first coeducational school in 
Afghanistan and a leading beacon of efforts to promote the education 
and equity of girls in Afghanistan. Our efforts helped the successful 
evacuation of hundreds of children and their families who were at risk 
under the Taliban's brutal regime.
  As each of these retiring members leave the Senate for the last time 
and go home to their families for the holidays, I want to wish them my 
heartfelt thanks for their years of service to the Senate and to the 
country.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 1112 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 1112

  Urging the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to 
            honor their partnership with the United States.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 12, 2022

Mr. Malinowski (for himself, Ms. Spanberger, Mr. Allred, Mr. Kim of New 
  Jersey, Mr. Lieu, and Ms. Wild) submitted the following resolution; 
         which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Urging the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to 
            honor their partnership with the United States.

Whereas the United States, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab 
        Emirates have traditionally had a close partnership based on mutual 
        interests, security cooperation, the stability of oil markets, 
        information sharing, economic development, and other forms of 
        cooperation;
Whereas, on October 31, 1950, President Harry Truman stated that Saudi Arabia's 
        ``steadfast loyalty and good will, alike in times of stress as in days 
        of happiness and well-being, have ever been sources of pride and 
        pleasure to me and to the American people'';
Whereas, on May 24, 1977, President Jimmy Carter said, ``I don't believe there 
        is any other nation with whom we've had better friendship and a deeper 
        sense of cooperation than we've found in Saudi Arabia. . .Saudi Arabia 
        is a nation which has grown in many ways in the last few years in world 
        importance. Their supplies of energy are crucial to the well-being of 
        people in many nations. They produce their own oil for world consumption 
        beyond the level which perhaps would be best for them.'';
Whereas, on February 11, 1985, President Ronald Reagan said, ``The friendship 
        and cooperation between our governments and people are precious jewels 
        whose value we should never underestimate. The positive nature of our 
        relations demonstrates that cultural differences, as distinct as our 
        own, need not separate or alienate peoples from one another.'';
Whereas, on March 10, 2006, President George W. Bush stated, ``In order to win 
        the war on terror, we have got to strengthen our relationships and 
        friendships with moderate Arab countries in the Middle East. UAE is a 
        committed ally in the war on terror. They are a key partner for our 
        military in a critical region.'';
Whereas, on March 9, 2016, then Vice President Joe Biden underscored the strong 
        bilateral relationship between the United States and the United Arab 
        Emirates, calling the bond between the United Arab Emirates and the 
        United States ``one of the most significant in the region'';
Whereas, on April 21, 2016, President Barack Obama said, ``The fact of the 
        matter is, is that the friendship and cooperation that exist between the 
        United States and the Gulf countries has been consistent for decades. 
        During the course of our administration, the GCC countries have 
        extensively cooperated with us on counterterrorism, on curbing the 
        financing of terrorist activities.'';
Whereas the United States came to the aid of Persian Gulf allies following 
        Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait on August 2, 1990, including more 
        than 500,000 American troops deployed to Saudi Arabia as part of 
        Operation Desert Shield, protecting the territorial integrity of the 
        Kingdom and further solidifying the relationship between the United 
        States and Persian Gulf allies;
Whereas, like Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait that threatened the security 
        of United States Persian Gulf allies, Russian President Vladimir Putin 
        is executing a war of choice by invading Ukraine that threatens to upend 
        70 years of international laws and norms;
Whereas, since 1979, the United States has sold over $138,000,000,000 to Saudi 
        Arabia and over $26,000,000,000 to the United Arab Emirates in weapons, 
        defense services, and military training to assist both countries combat 
        security risks in the region, including from terrorism, nonstate actors, 
        and neighboring countries;
Whereas, since 2015, the United States has assisted the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
        and the United Arab Emirates defend their territorial integrity against 
        Ansar Allah, also known as the Houthis, and other threats emanating from 
        Yemen, including al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula;
Whereas, following the September 14, 2019, attack on the Abqaiq oil facilities 
        in Saudi Arabia, the United States deployed approximately 3,000 troops 
        to Saudi Arabia, including fighter squadrons, an air expeditionary wing, 
        and other air defense personnel and equipment;
Whereas, in June 2021, President Joe Biden reported to Congress that there were 
        approximately 2,700 United States military forces in the Kingdom, 
        deployed and ``operating in coordination with the Government of the 
        Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, provide air and missile defense capabilities 
        and support the operation of United States fighter aircraft'';
Whereas, on September 11, 2021, Department of Defense Spokesman John Kirby said, 
        ``The Defense Department continues to maintain tens of thousands of 
        forces and a robust force posture in the Middle East representing some 
        of our most advanced air power and maritime capabilities, in support of 
        U.S. national interests and our regional partnerships.'';
Whereas the State Department licenses contractors that maintain and sustain the 
        Saudi Royal Air Force amid hostilities in Yemen and its continued 
        bombing campaign against Ansar Allah;
Whereas the United States currently has 2,000 American troops at Al-Dhafra Air 
        Base, United Arab Emirates, including drones and advanced F-35 fighters, 
        in order to assist the United Arab Emirates defend its territory;
Whereas, on January 24, 2022, and January 31, 2022, United States personnel 
        assisted the United Arab Emirates intercept ballistic missiles fired by 
        Ansar Allah in Yemen with United States-administered Patriot missile 
        defense batteries;
Whereas there are many factors contributing to the high price of oil, including 
        structural market issues that predate Russia's invasion of Ukraine and 
        uncertainty about global demand;
Whereas the agreement between the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting 
        Countries (OPEC), led primarily by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and 
        Russia to maintain a steady, limited increase in monthly petroleum 
        production is also a major factor in the rising price of gasoline 
        worldwide;
Whereas, despite their close and long-lasting strategic relationship with the 
        United States, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have chosen not 
        to increase petroleum outputs beyond OPEC-agreed levels amid a major 
        increase in global fuel prices;
Whereas attempts by the White House to engage with United States Gulf partners 
        on potentially increasing petroleum production have gone unanswered, 
        with reports suggesting that the leaders of Saudi Arabia and United Arab 
        Emirates refused calls with President Joe Biden on the issue;
Whereas Article 2.B of OPEC's founding charter states ``the Organization shall 
        devise ways and means of ensuring the stabilization of prices in 
        international oil markets with a view to eliminating harmful and 
        unnecessary fluctuations'';
Whereas, following a decline in demand after the outbreak of the COVID-19 
        pandemic and a request from President Donald Trump, Saudi Arabia made 
        drastic changes to crude oil production and output in the face of 
        previous crises, including finalizing an OPEC deal in April 2020 that 
        slashed 9,700,000 barrels a day, or close to 10 percent of the world's 
        output;
Whereas, while the United States and the world move toward expanding the use of 
        clean energy, petroleum production should increase in the short term to 
        mitigate rising oil prices;
Whereas Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are understood by experts to 
        be the only countries with the ability to increase production that could 
        be felt by consumers worldwide;
Whereas Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have approximately a combined 
        additional 1,800,000 to 3,000,000 barrels a day of spare production 
        capacity; and
Whereas activating their spare production would increase supply more rapidly 
        than currently projected and help stabilize global crude prices: Now, 
        therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the House of Representatives urges the Persian Gulf 
partners of the United States, including the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
and the United Arab Emirates, to--
            (1) honor their lasting friendship with the United States;
            (2) recognize the United States contributions to their 
        security; and
            (3) work together with the United States in good faith to 
        increase oil production to stabilize energy markets.
                                 <all>
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 43 (Thursday, March 10, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1071-S1072]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                                 RUSSIA

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, it is interesting to listen to the 
reaction to the notion that we are going to stop our dependence on 
Russian oil. I totally support that. The notion that I would buy 
gasoline in my hometown and put it in my car or truck and somehow 
subsidize what Vladimir Putin is doing in the rape of Ukraine is just 
unacceptable. I believe there is not only a moral force but a political 
force behind this. Morally, there is no way we are going to support 
Putin. Politically, we have to come together with other nations and 
make this as painful as possible on him, and stopping the import of 
Russian oil is a move in that direction.

[[Page S1072]]

  It is interesting that that was a bipartisan position which I joined 
over the weekend--many of us did--Democrats and Republicans all saying: 
Enough with the Russian oil. We will find other ways to keep America's 
economy and cars and trucks moving without being dependent on Vladimir 
Putin or subsidizing his war effort.
  It was bipartisan--strong statements. In fact, there were as many 
statements in support of this from the other side of the aisle as this 
side of the aisle. Then what happened? Well, Dana Milbank, in this 
morning's Washington Post, tells the story of what happened.
  After President Biden made his announcement Tuesday, he said, 
accurately:

       ``Since Putin began his military buildup on Ukrainian 
     borders, just since then, [it is 2 weeks] the price of gas at 
     the pump in America went up 75 cents. And with this action 
     [the Americans will stop buying Russian oil] it's going to go 
     up further.'' [President Biden] dubbed it ``Putin's price 
     hike'' and said ``Russia is responsible.''

  Since this was a bipartisan idea--stopping the flow of Russian oil 
into the United States and subsidizing Putin's invasion of Ukraine--you 
would think there would be bipartisan applause. The exact opposite 
occurred.
  In a Dana Milbank article, which I will ask to be part of the Record, 
here is what was said by House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy:

       ``These aren't Putin prices. They're President Biden's 
     prices''. . . . ``Gas prices started rising the day President 
     Biden took office--when he canceled the Keystone Pipeline and 
     halted new drilling on federal lands.''

  It turns out that these assertions, by not just Kevin McCarthy but 
other Republican leaders, are just not accurate. Nobody goes to the 
task and assignment of actually backing up some of these facts like 
real history and real numbers.
  Here is what he says: Gas prices started rising on the day that Biden 
took office.
  Wrong.
  They have been on an upward trend since bottoming out in April 2020, 
at the start of the coronavirus pandemic. This is because of booming 
demand during the recovery. So this notion that these are Biden gas 
prices that just started going up magically after he was sworn--not 
true.
  Then I love this one on the Keystone XL Pipeline. How many times have 
you heard on the floor of the Senate--maybe even this morning--that 
canceling the Keystone Pipeline is the reason that gasoline prices have 
gone up?
  It turns out, according to Dana Milbank, that pipeline was only 10 
percent completed when Biden canceled it. Its owners didn't even expect 
to open it until next year, 2023, at the earliest.
  Well, how about this one? You hear this over and over again from so 
many Republicans: Biden halted new drilling on Federal lands, they say. 
According to Milbank:

       Wrong. After a temporary halt in new leases, Biden has 
     outpaced Trump in new drilling permits for public lands.

  That has been reported by the Washington Post.
  And as for Biden's shutdown of American energy, listen to this:

       U.S. production has increased under Biden from 9.7 million 
     barrels a day to 11.6 million barrels. The number of oil rigs 
     operating was 172 in July of 2020. . . . Now, 519 are in 
     operation. U.S. production is forecast to set a record next 
     year.

  Now, I don't doubt that stopping the Russian export of oil into the 
United States is going to have a negative impact on gasoline prices. It 
stands to reason. But there is an adjustment being made. The President 
spoke to it last night, at a meeting we attended, where he is working 
on other sources for America to make this hardship as little as 
possible.
  I ask unanimous consent that the Milbank article be printed in the 
Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                       [From the Washington Post]

 Biden Heeded Republicans' Pleas To Ban Russian Oil. Then They Pounced

                           (By Dana Milbank)

       A cynic is rarely disappointed by this Republican Party. 
     Yet even by that standard, the current attempt to blame 
     President Biden--and absolve Vladimir Putin--for the spike in 
     gas prices is a special case.
       For days, Republicans called for a ban on imports of 
     Russian oil, a move that, while the right thing to do to 
     counter Putin's attack against Ukraine, would cause already 
     high gas prices to rise even further. Biden did as 
     Republicans wanted--and they responded by blaming his energy 
     policies for spiking gas prices.
       It's not only that the charge is bogus--the current price 
     of gas has virtually nothing to do with Biden's energy 
     policies--but that the Republican officials leveling it are 
     sowing division at home and giving a rhetorical boost to the 
     enemy at a perilous moment when national unity and sacrifice 
     will be needed to prevail against Russia.
       Announcing the ban on Tuesday, Biden said, accurately: 
     ``Since Putin began his military buildup on Ukrainian 
     borders, just since then, the price of the gas at the pump in 
     America went up 75 cents. And with this action, it's going to 
     go up further.'' He dubbed it ``Putin's price hike'' and said 
     ``Russia is responsible.''


                 republicans leaped to putin's defense

       ``These aren't Putin prices. They're President Biden's 
     prices,'' House GOP leader Kevin McCarthy said during a news 
     conference on Wednesday. Via tweet, he claimed: ``Gas prices 
     started rising the day President Biden took office--when he 
     canceled the Keystone Pipeline and halted new drilling on 
     federal lands.''
       Rep. Elise Stefanik (N.Y.), head of the House Republican 
     Conference, added: ``Joe Biden blames Russia for skyrocketing 
     gas prices. But make no mistake--Biden's war on American 
     energy is to blame.''
       Scores of Republicans piled on. The GOP side of the House 
     Energy and Commerce Committee tweeted: ``Russia isn't 
     `responsible'. Biden's shutdown of American energy is.''
       That's just a gusher of mendacity.
       Gas prices ``started rising the day President Biden took 
     office''? Wrong. They've been on an upward trend since 
     bottoming out in April 2020 at the start of the coronavirus 
     pandemic. This is because of booming demand during the 
     recovery--not because of Biden's policies (or President 
     Donald Trump's, for that matter).
       Canceling the Keystone XL pipeline caused gas prices to 
     rise? Wrong. It was only 10 percent done when Biden canceled 
     it, and its owners didn't expect to open it until 2023 at the 
     earliest.
       Biden ``halted new drilling on federal lands''? Wrong. 
     After a temporary halt in new leases, Biden has outpaced 
     Trump in new drilling permits for public lands, The Post 
     reported.
       As for Biden's ``shutdown of American energy,'' U.S. 
     production has increased under Biden from 9.7 million barrels 
     a day to 11.6 million barrels. The number of oil rigs 
     operating was at 172 in July 2020, E&E News reports. Now, 519 
     are in operation. U.S. production is forecast to set a record 
     next year.
       What's holding back oil production isn't government policy. 
     U.S. producers still have 4,400 wells already approved and 
     drilled that are not yet producing. They aren't drilling more 
     because of a shortage of workers and equipment and, 
     particularly, investors' greed. As The Post reported, major 
     U.S. oil companies say they would rather use their profits 
     ``to boost payouts to shareholders'' than ``rush to drill new 
     wells.''
       Blaming Biden for the spike in prices around Russia's 
     Ukraine invasion isn't just false--it's an assist to Putin 
     that damages national security.
       Polls show that Americans--Republicans and Democrats 
     alike--favor banning Russian oil imports, even if that 
     increases energy prices. Seventy-nine percent said so in a 
     Wall Street Journal poll this week. Americans know the 
     stakes, and they are willing to sacrifice.
       But what happens if Republican lawmakers and their Fox News 
     masters persuade their supporters to believe that Biden, not 
     Putin, is to blame for their problems? Their willingness to 
     sacrifice dissipates--and so does their support for the fight 
     against Putin.
       It's lucky this hasn't happened already. Fox News's Tucker 
     Carlson, after parroting Kremlin talking points justifying 
     its invasion of Ukraine, has pivoted to blaming the United 
     States for provoking Putin. ``Why in the world would the 
     United States intentionally seek war with Russia?'' he asked 
     on Monday night.
       Trump himself has praised Putin's acuity, Sen. Josh Hawley 
     (R-Mo.) has called for the United States to appease Russia by 
     abandoning its support for Ukrainian membership in NATO, and 
     Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.), after proposing to 
     impeach Biden for ``threatening war'' with Russia, now asks: 
     ``How is banning Russian oil (10 percent of our imports) 
     helping reduce gas prices hurting Americans?''
       Fighting Russian aggression while avoiding World War III is 
     hard enough. With Republicans acting in bad faith, it's that 
     much harder.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7207 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7207

 To prohibit the importation of petroleum products from Venezuela, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 24, 2022

 Mr. Donalds (for himself, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Gibbs, and Mr. Diaz-
   Balart) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
   Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on 
  Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To prohibit the importation of petroleum products from Venezuela, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Prohibit Venezuelan Oil Importation 
Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) From 1959 to 1999, Venezuela, officially known as the 
        Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, had a form of government that 
        embraced democratic principles.
            (2) In 1999, Hugo Chavez was elected as the President of 
        Venezuela, where he maintained power by redistributing the 
        country's vast oil reserves towards social welfare programs, 
        suppressing dissent and independent media, and corrupting 
        Venezuela's democratic institutions, while simultaneously 
        nationalizing the country's private businesses, which he did so 
        until his death on March 5, 2013.
            (3) On April 24, 2013, Nicolas Maduro became President of 
        Venezuela, notwithstanding multiple claims of election fraud 
        and constitutional violations against Maduro.
            (4) During this time, Venezuela's economy had become 
        strongly dependent on the exportation of oil, with crude 
        accounting for 86 percent of its exports.
            (5) However, in 2014, Venezuela entered into an economic 
        recession, which led to the Venezuelan regime's partnership 
        with Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PDVSA), a state oil company, 
        to combat the highly fluctuating price of oil in Venezuela 
        along with the country's overall steep decrease in oil 
        production.
            (6) In 2015, Venezuela's economic struggles continued, with 
        Venezuela having the world's highest rate of inflation that 
        surpassed 100 percent, resulting from the Maduro regime's 
        socialist economic policy that ultimately redistributed the 
        oil-generated wealth to Venezuela's oligarchs.
            (7) In January 2016, Maduro declared an ``economic 
        emergency'' due to the country's inability to provide for basic 
        human needs to its citizens, leading to riots in the streets of 
        Venezuela.
            (8) In 2017, Maduro announced that leading opposition 
        parties would be barred from taking part in the country's 
        Presidential election, which led the United States and other 
        countries formally recognizing Juan Guaido as the President of 
        Venezuela, although countries such as China, Russia, Cuba, and 
        Iran still continued to recognize President Nicolas Maduro.
            (9) In August 2019, President Donald Trump signed an 
        Executive order to impose tough sanctions against Maduro's 
        totalitarian regime.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that Congress--
            (1) recognizes that Venezuela has been impacted by 
        hyperinflation, rampant crime, and significant government 
        corruption;
            (2) condemns the totalitarian Maduro regime and calls for 
        the return of constitutional democratic government to Venezuela 
        similar to the form of government that existed in the country 
        from 1959 to 1999; and
            (3) calls on President Joseph Biden to use relevant 
        constitutional and statutory authorities that grant emergency 
        powers to waive unnecessary environmental permitting 
        requirements until the United States can reliably produce 
        enough oil and natural gas to recapture America's global energy 
        dominance.

SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It shall be the policy of the United States--
            (1) to support the desire of the people of Venezuela for 
        freedom and democracy;
            (2) to promote its national security interests by 
        prohibiting the importation of petroleum products from 
        Venezuela in the midst of the ongoing Russian attack on 
        Ukraine;
            (3) to stress the importance of American energy 
        independence, particularly from countries such as Russia and 
        Venezuela; and
            (4) to implement America-first energy policies that 
        contradict President Biden's overall energy policy approach.

SEC. 4. PROHIBITION ON IMPORTATION OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS FROM 
              VENEZUELA.

    (a) In General.--The President shall prohibit the importation of 
all petroleum products (as such term is defined in section 3 of the 
Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6202)) originating from 
Venezuela into the customs territory of the United States (as such term 
is defined in General Note 2 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule).
    (b) Modification or Removal of Prohibition.--The President may 
modify or remove the prohibition under subsection (a) with respect to 
some or all petroleum products described in such subsection only if the 
President--
            (1) reimplements and maintains the sanctions imposed 
        against Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PDVSA);
            (2) directs the Executive Office of the President to 
        conduct and submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
        and leadership a study that--
                    (A) outlines the impacts and implications of 
                Executive Order 13990 of January 20, 2021 (86 Fed. Reg. 
                7037; relating to protecting public health and the 
                environment and restoring science to tackle the climate 
                crisis), specifically pertaining to the decision to 
                revoke--
                            (i) Executive Order 13766 of January 24, 
                        2017 (82 Fed. Reg. 8657; relating to expediting 
                        environmental review and approvals for high 
                        priority infrastructure projects);
                            (ii) Executive Order 13778 of February 28, 
                        2017 (82 Fed. Reg. 12497; relating to restoring 
                        the rule of law, federalism, and economic 
                        growth by reviewing the ``Waters of the United 
                        States'' rule);
                            (iii) Executive Order 13783 of March 28, 
                        2017 (82 Fed. Reg. 16093; relating to promoting 
                        energy independence and economic growth);
                            (iv) Executive Order 13792 of April 26, 
                        2017 (82 Fed. Reg. 20429; relating to review of 
                        designations under the Antiquities Act);
                            (v) Executive Order 13795 of April 28, 2017 
                        (82 Fed. Reg. 20815; relating to implementing 
                        an America-first offshore energy strategy);
                            (vi) Executive Order 13868 of April 10, 
                        2019 (84 Fed. Reg. 15495; relating to promoting 
                        energy infrastructure and economic growth); and
                            (vii) Executive Order 13807 of August 15, 
                        2017 (82 Fed. Reg. 40463; relating to 
                        establishing discipline and accountability in 
                        the environmental review and permitting process 
                        for infrastructure projects);
                    (B) provides the necessary and appropriate 
                recommendations for the President to reimplement an 
                America-first offshore energy strategy, as in effect on 
                January 19, 2020;
                    (C) reports on the effects of President Biden's--
                            (i) decision to institute a moratorium on 
                        offshore and onshore oil and gas leasing on 
                        Federal land, including the directive to the 
                        Department of the Interior to pause all oil and 
                        gas lease sales on Federal lands;
                            (ii) actions that threaten to raise royalty 
                        rates for any onshore and offshore projects 
                        relating to the oil and gas industry;
                            (iii) statements that create significant 
                        regulatory uncertainty, including the 
                        President's threats of implementing new 
                        excessive and burdensome regulations on the oil 
                        and gas industry;
                            (iv) decision to stop the lease sales in 
                        the Coastal Plain (as defined in section 
                        20001(a)(1) of the Public Law 115-97 (16 U.S.C. 
                        668dd note(a)(1))) of the Arctic National 
                        Wildlife Refuge and the National Petroleum 
                        Reserve-Alaska;
                            (v) directive to the Department of Energy 
                        to delay the review of certain liquified 
                        natural gas export licenses;
                            (vi) allocation of authority to the Federal 
                        Energy Regulatory Commission to change its 
                        certificate policy statement governing 
                        interstate natural gas pipeline reviews;
                            (vii) decision to shut down critical mining 
                        projects, such as Twin Metals copper-nickel 
                        mine in Minnesota;
                            (viii) guidance to the Department of the 
                        Treasury that prevents the Department of 
                        Energy, the United States Agency for 
                        International Development, and the Department 
                        of State from investing in loans or grants for 
                        fossil fuel projects abroad;
                            (ix) refusal to permit mining projects, 
                        such as Resolution Copper in Arizona;
                            (x) decision to reinstitute National 
                        Monuments, including Bears Ears National 
                        Monument and Grand Staircase-Escalante National 
                        Monument, to prevent the development of fossil 
                        fuel projects; and
                            (xi) response to the Bureau of Land 
                        Management's ongoing backlog of pending 
                        applications for permits to drill on Federal 
                        land;
                    (D) includes supplemental background information 
                pertaining to the President's decision to implement a 
                temporary moratorium on all Federal activities relating 
                to the implementation of the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas 
                Leasing Program (as established by the Record of 
                Decision signed August 17, 2020) in the Arctic National 
                Wildlife Refuge; and
                    (E) describes the potential impacts of pausing all 
                new discretionary regulatory policy that would 
                negatively impact the oil and gas sector, including--
                            (i) the proposed rule titled ``Standards of 
                        Performance for New, Reconstructed, and 
                        Modified Sources and Emissions Guidelines for 
                        Existing Sources: Oil and Natural Gas Sector 
                        Climate Review'' and published on November 15, 
                        2021 (86 Fed. Reg. 63110);
                            (ii) the Environmental Protection Agency's 
                        decision to reconsider the previous 
                        Administration's decision to retain, without 
                        revision, the National Ambient Air Quality 
                        Standards for particulate matter and ozone;
                            (iii) the development by the Environmental 
                        Protection Agency of a new definition of the 
                        term ``waters of the United States'' for any 
                        purpose that affects the oil and gas sector; 
                        and
                            (iv) the modification by the Corps of 
                        Engineers of nationwide permit (NWP) 
                        regulations under section 404 of the Federal 
                        Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344) 
                        and section 10 of the Act of March 3, 1899 (33 
                        U.S.C. 403);
            (3) renews the authorization of the Keystone XL pipeline 
        for the purpose of importing oil from Canada to the United 
        States, as described in the Presidential permit of March 29, 
        2019 (84 Fed. Reg. 13101);
            (4) resumes oil and gas leasing on Federal land; and
            (5) notifies the appropriate congressional committees and 
        leadership that, in the determination of the President, such 
        modification or removal is appropriate given the situation in 
        Ukraine, and includes with such notification--
                    (A) an explanation of the rationale for such 
                modification or removal; and
                    (B) if the modification does not result in the full 
                removal of the prohibition, a description of the 
                criteria to be met by Venezuela for further 
                modification or removal of remaining elements of the 
                prohibition.
    (c) Penalties.--The President is authorized to use appropriate 
authorities to impose such civil or criminal penalties as may be 
necessary to enforce the prohibition under subsection (a).
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees and Leadership Defined.--
For purposes of this section, the term ``appropriate congressional 
committees and leadership'' means--
            (1) the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 
        President pro tempore of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the 
        Committee on Armed Services, and the Permanent Select Committee 
        on Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
            (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, 
        the Committee on Armed Services, and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate.
                                 <all>
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 26 (Wednesday, February 9, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S599-S602]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                        Tribute to Anthony Fauci

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, our history books are filled with the 
names of great men and women who devoted their lives to others. One who 
may not be as recognizable as others is Norman Borlaug. He was an 
American biologist. He successfully developed a strain of wheat that 
grew more quickly and was disease-resistant. His work to feed the 
hungry has been credited with saving a billion lives worldwide.
  Madame Marie Curie was a Polish chemist who is remembered for her 
discovery of radium and polonium and her huge contribution toward 
finding a treatment for cancer.
  Of course, there are all the scientists throughout history who 
developed lifesaving vaccines: Edward Jenner, smallpox vaccine; Louis 
Pasteur, rabies; Albert Calmette, TB; Leila Denmark, whooping cough; 
Jonas Salk, polio. I might add Albert Sabin, too, because I was a kid 
and remember he came up with the oral version, which meant we didn't 
have to get a shot. Kids remember that.
  These men and women will be remembered for improving and saving lives 
with their breakthroughs in medicine, agriculture, and science.
  I want to nominate another person to be remembered in that same 
light. His name is Anthony Fauci. Born in 1940, Tony Fauci, the 
grandson of Italian immigrants, grew up a Yankees fan in Brooklyn. He 
was the captain of his high school basketball team. He worked 
construction jobs over breaks in the summer from school.
  He ultimately decided he wanted to pursue a career in medicine. Thank 
goodness he did. In 1972, Anthony Fauci accepted a senior researcher 
position at the National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases 
at the National Institutes of Health, and for the past 38 years, Dr. 
Fauci has been the leader of that Institute. He has advised seven 
Presidents of both political parties. He has guided our Nation and the 
world through countless public health crises--SARS, avian influenza, 
swine flu, Zika, Ebola.
  Aside from his work against COVID-19, he is best known for his work 
on HIV/AIDS. Anthony Fauci's tireless efforts on HIV/AIDS, both 
domestically and worldwide, through the creation of PEPFAR, the 
President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, is the main reason why HIV/
AIDS is no longer a death sentence.
  Some of us can remember when HIV/AIDS was first discovered. I can 
recall coming to vote in the House and somebody stopping me on the 
sidewalk and saying: Did you hear Magic Johnson has AIDS? I can 
remember hearings in the House Budget Committee as a young Congressman 
when we thought it was a death sentence that we were all going to face 
eventually. There was ultimate panic in the air, but thank goodness 
there were talented people like Tony Fauci with the nerves of steel 
needed to confront that.
  Harold Varmus, a former NIH Director, once said:

       PEPFAR has turned around declining life expectancies in 
     many countries and likely saved some countries--even an 
     entire continent--from economic ruin.

  Larry Kramer, a prominent and well-known AIDS activist who recently 
passed away, called Dr. Fauci ``the only true and great hero'' among 
government officials of the AIDS crisis.
  For his work on HIV/AIDS, Dr. Fauci was awarded the Presidential 
Medal of Freedom in 2008--our Nation's highest civilian honor--from 
then-President George W. Bush, who called Dr. Fauci ``my hero.''
  Dr. Fauci has devoted his career and his life to improving public 
health. He has saved countless lives here and around the world. These 
days, he is working 18 hours a day, 7 days a week, shuttling from the 
NIH to the White House and back home.
  He is a classic example of American excellence, a brilliant 
scientific mind. Yet, despite all this, despite all that I have told 
you about this man, some Members of today's Republican Party have 
chosen to make him a political target. They think attacking Dr. Fauci 
will cause us to forget the real history of COVID-19.

  You see, the Republican Party has consistently failed the American 
people when it has come to COVID--from President Trump's refusing to 
take it seriously, to the discouragement of mask-wearing and vaccines, 
to promoting horse tranquilizers and bleach and bizarre theories as a 
cure. They have too little courage to face their communities and to do 
the hard work of governing during this public health crisis, so they 
have invented a political target, a convenient target, on which to 
focus their blame.
  Instead of addressing this public health crisis head on, they are 
trying to deflect and distract from it in attacking Dr. Tony Fauci. 
They are, without evidence, suggesting the false narrative that Dr. 
Fauci secretly and purposely funded illicit research that caused this 
virus. They are even criticizing his government salary, for goodness' 
sakes.
  He accrued that salary, I might remind them, over four decades of 
public service, as though he wouldn't make twice or three times that 
amount in the private sector today. They are questioning his financials 
and ties to the drug industry, even though he has made every requested 
document available, and no malfeasance or conflicts have been found.
  So why do they do this? Why are they determined to run this man down? 
Why would they attack this public servant who is working around the 
clock to keep us safe?

[[Page S600]]

  It is because it is much easier to malign a person than it is to do 
the hard work of enacting policies to tackle this virus and keep 
America healthy. Their distractions have sunk so low that they are 
using these attacks to raise money for their political campaigns.
  We have Republican candidates, from Ohio to Florida, who are running 
ads entitled, ``Fire Fauci,'' who are promising to subpoena him and 
reduce his salary to zero if it is within their power, who are selling 
``Freedom over Fauci Flip-Flops,'' which comes from none other than the 
Governor of Florida. A few of my Senate Republican colleagues have 
loaded up their websites with anti-Fauci fervor, conveniently located 
next to a ``donate here'' option.
  We have FOX News' anchors and podcast comedians giving air time to 
anti-vaxxers who are hoping to get their 15 minutes of fame by leveling 
baseless claims against Dr. Fauci, baseless claims that have resulted 
in death threats and harassment against Dr. Fauci, his wife, and his 
children.
  Let me ask you this: What have Dr. Fauci's most vocal critics done to 
advance the cause of public health?
  Nothing. They have done nothing. Worse than that, their lies about 
Dr. Fauci and about COVID are creating a toxic political environment 
that is literally killing people, as 900,000 Americans have now died 
from COVID. Some of these deaths could have been prevented with 
vaccinations.
  Americans who are unvaccinated--listen to this; the Presiding Officer 
knows it--are 97 times more likely to die from COVID than their 
vaccinated and boosted counterparts--97 times more likely to die. Yet, 
instead of spending their time encouraging vaccinations and promoting 
other proven, legitimate public health measures that would end this 
pandemic, many in the Republican Party want to get their 5 or 10 
minutes of Sun on FOX TV, and they spend their time attacking Dr. 
Fauci.
  These attacks are a shameful fraud, and for what--to fundraise? to 
win another guest appearance on FOX?
  Working in politics, you get used to a lot of things--grandstanding, 
demagoguery, hypocrisy--but what some of my Republican colleagues are 
doing to Dr. Fauci is the lowest form of political life. They are lying 
about someone who has devoted his life to saving people--saving AIDS 
patients, containing and eradicating Ebola, preventing the spread of 
Zika and the avian flu. He is someone who has worked harder than anyone 
to end this COVID pandemic.
  David Relman, a microbiologist who has advised the U.S. Government 
for years on biological threats, said this of Dr. Fauci:

       Nobody is a more tireless champion of the truth and the 
     facts . . . I am not entirely sure what we would do without 
     him.

  Dr. Fauci's name is--and deserves to be--listed alongside our world's 
greatest scientific minds. History will reserve another place for those 
who lied about him for their own gain--inciting hatred, prolonging this 
pandemic, and contributing to needless pain and suffering.
  America is blessed to have the talent, dedication, and compassion of 
Anthony Fauci in the midst of this deadly pandemic.
  I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the Record an article from 
The Washington Post, entitled, ``Anthony Fauci is up against more than 
a virus,'' after these remarks.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                            [Jan. 27, 2022]

             Anthony Fauci Is Up Against More Than a Virus

                    (By Dan Zak and Roxanne Roberts)

       Two years into the pandemic, the threats and vitriol have 
     not stopped. And the many Americans who still trust him are 
     exhausted.
       The doctor opens the front door. Never mind introductions. 
     ``I know who you are. Do you think these guys would let you 
     get this close to me, if we didn't know who you are?'' Across 
     the street is a security agent in Nikes, a badge on his belt. 
     He's not the only one watching.
       ``I mean, isn't it amazing?'' the doctor says. ``Here I am, 
     with cameras around my house.''
       The house is modest for Washington: stucco and brick, cozy 
     and cramped. No obvious tokens of celebrity or esteem. 
     Icicles on the dormant hot tub out back. Bottles of red wine 
     and olive oil on the kitchen counter.
       ``It's messy because, as you know, in covid times, nobody 
     comes over. So nobody cares.''
       People are coming by outside, though. They are snapping 
     photos. Two years into the pandemic Anthony Fauci remains the 
     face of America's covid response, and on this cold Saturday 
     in January thousands of marchers are descending on the 
     capital to rally against vaccine mandates. Are some of them 
     staking out his home?
       The security agents ``usually leave at a certain time,'' 
     the doctor says. ``But tonight they're going to sleep in our 
     guest room.''
       Year 3 of covid times. Nearly 900,000 Americans are dead. 
     An average of 2,000 (mostly unvaccinated) Americans are dying 
     every day now, even though there is a simple measure to limit 
     such suffering--made possible in large part by the Vaccine 
     Research Center founded under Fauci. And yet many Americans 
     would rather take their chances with a virus than a vaccine, 
     because there's more than just a virus going around. There's 
     something else in the air. Symptoms include rage, delusion, 
     opportunism and extreme behavior--like comparing Fauci to 
     Nazi doctor Josef Mengele (as Lara Logan did on Fox News in 
     November), or setting out for Washington with an AR-15 and a 
     kill list of ``evil'' targets that included Fauci (as a 
     California man did last month).
       ``Surrealistic,'' the doctor says.
       He has not had a day off since the beginning. ``I would say 
     I'm in a state of chronic exhaustion.'' He quickly adds: 
     ``But it's not exhaustion that's interfering with my 
     function.'' He is a precise man whose tour in the information 
     war has made him extra-vigilant about his words. ``I can just 
     see, you know, Laura Ingraham: `He's exhausted! Get rid of 
     him!' ''
       Fauci has been a doctor and public servant for more than 50 
     years. He's been the country's top expert on infectious 
     diseases under seven U.S. presidents. George H.W. Bush once 
     called him his personal hero. Under George W. Bush, Fauci 
     became an architect of an AIDS-relief program that has, 
     according to the U.S. government, saved 21 million lives 
     around the world.
       He knows how a virus works. He knows how Washington works. 
     He thought he knew how people worked, too--even ones who 
     called him a murderer, as AIDS activists did decades ago 
     because they felt left for dead by a neglectful government. 
     Back then the angry people were motivated by truth and 
     science. Fauci had something to learn from them, and they had 
     something to learn from him. The shared mission was pursuing 
     facts and saving lives. Fear and uncertainty could be eased 
     by data and collaboration. Combatants, however scared or 
     passionate, shared a reality.
       Now?
       ``There is no truth,'' Fauci says, for effect. ``There is 
     no fact.'' People believe hydroxychloroquine works because an 
     Internet charlatan claims it does. People believe the 2020 
     election was stolen because a former president says so. 
     People believe that Fauci killed millions of people for the 
     good of his stock portfolio because it's implied by TV 
     pundits, Internet trolls and even elected leaders. Fauci is 
     unnerved by ``the almost incomprehensible culture of lies'' 
     that has spread among the populace, infected major organs of 
     the government, manifested as ghastly threats against him and 
     his family. His office staff, normally focused on 
     communicating science to the public, has been conscripted 
     into skirmishes over conspiracy theories and misinformation.
       ``It is very, very upending to live through this,'' Fauci 
     says, seated at his kitchen table in the midwinter light. He 
     pauses. ``I'm trying to get the right word for it.'' He is 
     examining himself now, at 81, in the shadow of the past two 
     years. ``It has shaken me a bit.''
       The way he can comprehend the situation is in the context 
     of the Jan. 6, 2021, siege of the Capitol. There it was, on 
     live TV, an experiment as clear as day: The abandonment of 
     truth has seismic consequences.
       Something has been replicating in the American mind. It is 
     not microbial. It cannot be detected by nasal swab. To treat 
     an affliction, you must first identify it. But you can't 
     slide a whole country into an MRI machine.
       ``There's no diagnosis for this,'' Fauci says. ``I don't 
     know what is going on.''
       A virus is a terrifying force that hijacks civilization. A 
     bureaucracy, intricate yet imperfect, is what we have to take 
     back control. For better and worse, Fauci became the 
     personification of both. He has been sainted and satanized 
     over the past two years, since he first fact-checked 
     President Donald Trump. His inbox is a cascade of hosannas 
     and go-to-hells. His days often start at 5 a.m. His nights 
     are fitful. What more could he have done today? What fresh 
     horror awaits tomorrow? He is fighting for a best-case 
     scenario, urging preparation for the worst, and fretting that 
     nothing will ever be good enough.
       ``I do worry about him,'' says Francis Collins, until 
     recently the director of the National Institutes of Health. 
     ``He's incredibly frustrated'' by the attacks ``because it's 
     a distraction. But there is no part of Tony Fauci that's 
     ready to give up on a problem just because it's hard.''
       ``Being two years into this, and being at the tip of the 
     spear--it takes a certain person to be able to persevere 
     through that,'' says Michael T. Osterholm, director of the 
     Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the 
     University of Minnesota. ``It's almost like asking someone to 
     run a marathon every day of their life.''
       ``He's always had complete bipartisan support, up until 
     covid,'' says AIDS activist

[[Page S601]]

     Peter Staley, who once picketed NIH and is now a dear friend 
     of Fauci's. ``It's flat-Earth time. Nothing makes sense. This 
     is a guy who tries to let science dictate what he says and 
     does. Now they're turning what is a pristine record into 
     something evil. They lie, and repeat the lie 100 times until 
     people think it's true.''
       Staley calls Fauci multiple times a week to check in, ask 
     him how he's doing, discuss the covid response and the 
     resistance to it.
       ``What do I tell him?'' Staley says. ``What kind of advice 
     do I give him to win that war? It's very frustrating. It's 
     almost unwinnable.''
       Look at Fauci's Jan. 11 appearance before the Senate Health 
     Committee. Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) chided Fauci and other 
     officials for spreading ``skepticism and mass confusion'' 
     with mixed messaging on covid guidelines. A harsh but fair 
     criticism. Then two senators--who each happen to have medical 
     degrees--got personal.
       ``You are the lead architect for the response from the 
     government, and now 800,000 people have died,'' said Sen. 
     Rand Paul (R-Ky.).
       Fauci scolded Paul that such an ``irresponsible'' statement 
     ``kindles the crazies.'' ``I have threats upon my life, 
     harassments of my family,'' Fauci said, suggesting that the 
     California man targeted him because he ``thinks that maybe 
     I'm killing people.''
       For years, Fauci had joked that his personal philosophy 
     comes from ``The Godfather'': ``It's not personal; it's 
     strictly business.'' The business is science. Science helped 
     him cure vasculitis. Science helped him and others transform 
     HIV from a death sentence to a condition managed by a pill.
       What he was facing now felt like it had nothing to do with 
     science.
       Later in the hearing, Sen. Roger Marshall (R-Kan.) 
     displayed a giant prop paycheck depicting Fauci's $400,000-
     plus salary. Marshall accused Fauci and ``Big Tech'' of 
     hiding his financial investments, which created an 
     ``appearance that maybe some shenanigans are going on.''
       Fauci, bewildered and incensed, replied that his assets, 
     which he had disclosed for decades, were available to the 
     public. (While this statement was technically true, his 
     disclosures were not just a Google search away; after the 
     hearing, Marshall's office requested and received the 
     documents from NIH, then declared that Fauci ``lied'' about 
     the ease of their availability.)
       When Marshall finished his questioning, Fauci let his 
     frustration get the better of him. ``What a moron,'' he 
     muttered to himself, not intending it for the microphone.
       What was going on here? Senators were ``trying to troll 
     Fauci, and they're trying to bring him down to their level,'' 
     says Matthew Sheffield, a former conservative activist who 
     now runs a political commentary website called 
     Flux.community. ``They know if they can get him to call 
     people a moron, or engage in pettiness the way that they 
     engage in pettiness constantly--if he does it even once, then 
     it's a victory for them.''
       Paul disputes this characterization and claims that Fauci 
     deserves ``some culpability'' for the pandemic because a 
     grant from his agency funded research in a lab in Wuhan, the 
     Chinese city where the novel coronavirus was first detected. 
     (The exact origins of the virus remain unknown. Scientific 
     consensus points to an animal-to-human transfer, but the 
     debate is ongoing.)
       Marshall's office did not have comment on Sheffield's 
     theory. After the hearing, the senator's campaign website did 
     start selling $29 T-shirts, featuring the doctor's likeness, 
     to commemorate the moment: ``Send Fauci a message by getting 
     your own `MORON' t-shirt!''
       The way in which the United States funds and manages 
     science provides a solid foundation for skepticism and 
     conspiracy, says University of Pennsylvania professor 
     Kathleen Hall Jamieson, who studies science communication and 
     misinformation.
       Yes, scientific recommendations change based on available 
     data, a truth that can be exploited to make responsible 
     leaders appear inconsistent or incompetent.
       Yes, Fauci has a high salary by government standards, has 
     been in the same unelected position for 38 years and oversees 
     a budget of $6 billion that flows into grants; those are 
     truths on which a distrusting person could build a theory 
     about corruption, unaccountable elites and a nefarious flow 
     of money from this or that institution to this or that lab.
       Yes, the virus seems unaccountable to our best efforts and 
     fueled by our worst instincts. Yes, the ways it has ended and 
     upended people's lives have been undeserved, tragic, crazy-
     making. These are scary truths that you can neutralize with a 
     fantasy about how a single human villain is to blame.
       The attacks and misinformation seem to be having an effect. 
     Confidence in Fauci is softening, according to polling 
     conducted since April by the Annenberg Public Policy Center. 
     After holding steady last summer and autumn, the percentage 
     of Americans who are confident that Fauci provides 
     trustworthy information about COVID-19 is down six points 
     since April, from 71 to 65 percent.
       ``For the first time in my lifetime--and I am an elderly 
     woman--the voice that speaks on behalf of the best available 
     knowledge in science has weathered sustained attack,'' says 
     Jamieson, director of the policy center. ``Confidence [in 
     Fauci] remains high despite that attack, but the erosion is 
     worrisome.''
       With Trump long gone from the White House and public 
     exhaustion with precautions surging alongside the omicron 
     variant, Fauci may now be more useful to the pundits who need 
     a villain than those who need a hero. ``Fauci must go,'' the 
     editors of the conservative National Review demanded this 
     month. ``I'm over COVID,'' talk-show host Bill Maher told 
     Deadline before his show last week. His guest, author Bari 
     Weiss, echoed the frustration of millions: We were told ``you 
     get the vaccine and you get back to normal. And we haven't 
     gotten back to normal.''
       ``The stalwart Fauci was the wise Oracle of Delphi to then-
     President Donald Trump's babbling brook about household 
     bleach as an injectable, anti-viral agent,'' Washington Post 
     columnist Kathleen Parker wrote this week.
       ``Maybe it's my imagination,'' she continued, ``but Fauci 
     appears less confident of late, perhaps weary of his own 
     voice and exhausted by two years of on-camera appearances.''
       Sen. Marshall exaggerated this erosion during the Jan. 11 
     hearing. ``You've lost your reputation,'' he told Fauci, 
     adding: ``The American people don't trust the words coming 
     out of your mouth.''
       ``That's a real distortion of the reality,'' Fauci 
     answered.
       Marshall replied with a truth from the world outside of 
     medical science: ``Perception is reality.''
       Fauci is not naive. He gets that a third of the country 
     won't hear him. He still understands Washington enough to see 
     how it is deteriorating in new and disturbing ways, as fringe 
     thinking spreads to the central organs. As Peter Staley puts 
     it: ``Because one party has turned so anti-science, Tony's 
     power is no longer stable.''
       Yet Fauci still thinks he is an effective messenger. And he 
     still hasn't totally given up on the people who are making 
     his life miserable. After the exchange with Marshall, and a 
     news cycle dominated by ``moron'' instead of ``omicron,'' 
     Fauci told his own incredulous staff: Maybe the senator has a 
     point. Maybe my financial investments, though disclosed and 
     available, should be much easier to see.
       As for the citizens who wish him harm, he can't help but 
     search for some signal, some symptom, that could help him 
     understand.
       ``I'm always looking for the good in people, that kernel of 
     something that's positive,'' Fauci says. ``And it's tough to 
     imagine that that many people are bad people. And, I mean, 
     it's just--has something been smoldering in their lives? 
     Something that's sociologically evasive to me?''
       He wonders: Does their resentment indicate an underlying 
     issue that needs--for lack of a better term--healing?
       ``Maybe it's pain that they're feeling, that's driving 
     it?'' he says, as if bedside with a patient. ``And we're 
     focusing on the aberrancy of their actions, but we really are 
     not fully appreciating that maybe they're suffering. And 
     they're rebelling against a failing of society, maybe, to 
     address some of their needs. Maybe we need, as a nation, to 
     address the fundamental issues that are getting, you know, 
     tens of millions of people to feel a certain way.''
       On Sunday, in front of the Lincoln Memorial, thousands of 
     people rallied against vaccine mandates. Fauci's name was 
     scrawled on many signs. The rhetoric was familiar. ``Dr. 
     Fauci is the new Jeff Mengele from World War II,'' said a 
     Long Island construction worker named Gio Nicolson, who 
     described Fauci as both ``puppet'' and ``dictator.'' A 57-
     year-old woman named Robin Field drove three hours from 
     Yorktown, Va., to hold up a homemade sign that depicted 
     Fauci's decapitated head in a noose, under the words ``HANG 
     EM HIGH.''
       Fauci is guilty of treason, according to Field. She's done 
     her own research, she says, and it's clear that his 
     recommendations have both ``killed people'' and made him 
     money.
       The violence of her sign, though--where is that coming 
     from? At a primal level, it seems to convey pain or fear.
       ``Of co--'' Field starts, then stops. ``Well . . .''
       How would she put it?
       ``I feel so bad that so many people have lost their lives. 
     That hurts, because we all have loved ones that have touched 
     our hearts and passed away.''
       Almost no one alive has experienced this kind of sudden 
     mass death, this level of widespread illness, this freezing 
     and fracturing of all life. It hurts. For much of the 1980s, 
     every single one of Fauci's AIDS patients died. Ugly deaths 
     that he was powerless to prevent. He had to suppress the pain 
     and bury the emotion to get through each day. When he recalls 
     that era, his eyes water and his throat constricts. His self-
     diagnosis is a quick aside (``post-traumatic stress'') as he 
     bridges the past and the present. In the middle of a 
     cataclysm, it's hard to see the end. But it does end.
       ``As a society, when we get out of this, you know, we're 
     going to look up and say, `Oh, my goodness, what we've been 
     through,' '' he says. ``We've had an outbreak where we've 
     lost close to 900,000 people in the last two years. That's 
     going to have a long-lasting effect.''
       In the early '70s, when he was chief resident in a 
     Manhattan hospital, Fauci remembers glancing out over the 
     East River in the middle of the night, ``Saying, you know, 
     I'm tired, but I can't stop until at least this patient is 
     stabilized.'' When he was the main attending physician at NIH 
     during the AIDS crisis, he wouldn't leave the ward until he 
     addressed every patient need. Now he views

[[Page S602]]

     the entire country as his patient--a patient afflicted by 
     both a virus and an undiagnosed condition that hampers its 
     ability to fight it.
       He could spare himself further pain and exhaustion and 
     allow America to see another doctor. He could tag out.
       ``That's not my character,'' he says. ``I don't do that.''
       The patient, you see, is not stabilized yet.
       Fauci stares out the kitchen window into his small 
     backyard. Right now he sees a crossroads for America. The 
     best-case scenario: increased vaccination, more immunity, 
     antiviral drugs, a virus under control. If we work together. 
     The worst: a new variant, as transmissible as omicron but 
     more deadly, exacerbated by that comorbidity--the 
     deterioration of our minds and politics.
       ``It's like it's 2 o'clock in the morning, and I'm looking 
     out the window at the East River,'' Fauci says, ``and I got a 
     patient who's bleeding, and another patient has a myocardial 
     infarction, and another patient who has septicemia--''
       The sense memory prompts a sort of pep talk for the 
     present.
       ``There's no time to be exhausted, folks. You got a job to 
     do.''

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. TUBERVILLE. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 99 (Thursday, June 9, 2022)]
[House]
[Pages H5441-H5444]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     REALITY TV PROGRAMMING TONIGHT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 4, 2021, the Chair recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Perry) for 30 minutes.
  Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, reality TV. I think most of us are familiar 
with reality TV. You are going to see some of that tonight. Now, when 
reality TV first started, people watched that, they were enthusiastic 
about it, maybe a little intoxicated at times.
  I don't know how many shows you had to watch. I don't know how many 
iterations you had to watch, Madam Speaker, before you figured out, 
well, this really isn't reality. This isn't even real, right? The drama 
was contrived, the relationships made up. I suppose it was all to make 
you feel better about your own life, watching the crazy, unhinged 
existence of these aberrant things on TV.
  Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to see some more reality TV 
tonight, on this January 6th alleged committee. I call it an alleged 
committee because it is not really a committee. There is no minority. 
There is no minority on the committee. I know because I am in the 
minority. When you have a committee basis, you have the majority, they 
pick their members, and the minority picks their members. But when the 
majority picks members for the minority, they are the majority. It is 
all one side. What you are going to hear is a one-sided tale.
  Madam Speaker, this is not a court of law, but it is kind of like 
trying to be one in front of the public, trying to act like it is a 
court of law for the public to decide. It is a show trial. This is a 
Soviet-style show trial.
  Unfortunately, there are huge things happening in people's lives 
right now. They are paying the highest prices they have ever paid to 
drive back and forth to work or to daycare or to get their kids to 
school or if they can even afford a vacation. If you have got a small 
child, you are worrying every day, am I going to be able to get formula 
to feed my child? Of course, we have got this border crisis, cost of 
living, supply chain, all that stuff, and we are spending millions of 
dollars.
  This should actually be a campaign contribution to my friends on the 
left. The FEC should make them file a report. Millions and millions of 
taxpayer dollars for a show trial, a Soviet-style charade.
  How do we know? We know so many ways. We know in so many ways. Like I 
said, we are going to get one side of a story. The outcome has already 
been determined, Madam Speaker, by the people on this so-called 
committee. They issued subpoenas. But they didn't tell the people they 
issued the subpoenas to; they told the press. Does that sound like how 
things normally go in a court of law where due process is happening?
  But this isn't a court of law. You are just supposed to believe it is 
one. You are also supposed to believe there is due process. But there 
isn't. You are supposed to believe that this is seeking the truth, that 
this is seeking some kind of justice, that this is a fact-finding 
mission for which the legislature will then promulgate laws to make 
sure that mistakes made in the past never happen again.
  Ladies and gentlemen, it couldn't be further from the truth.
  How do I know? How do you know? Because these folks have hired the 
producer from ABC for this prime time show. We could be having this 
alleged hearing right now. I am here right now. My colleagues are here 
right now. Madam Speaker, you are in the chair right now, but this is 
being delayed until prime time with a TV producer, because it is a 
show. That is all it is.
  These are the same folks that if you want to call it evidence, they 
took somebody's text message, and they changed it to say what they 
wanted it to say. If it is evidence, they just tampered with evidence.
  Madam Speaker, this is an abomination. This is an outrage. This is an 
affront to our American Republic and to the order and the rule of law 
and to justice.
  Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Biggs), my 
good friend, for some comments about what is going to happen, what you 
are going to see tonight.
  Mr. BIGGS. Madam Speaker, it is my pleasure to take a few minutes.
  The first point I will talk about, the most fundamental aspect that 
this needs to be contextualized with is that the Democrats have 
basically corrupted every institution in America, not the least of 
which is this institution, not the least of which are the committees 
and the roles of committees.
  The gentleman from Pennsylvania said this is a show trial. He is 
exactly right. This is designed for television. It is not designed to 
find truth. It is not designed to say, let's come up with a legitimate 
legislative purpose, which is what the Supreme Court says you have to 
have if you are going to have a subpoena in the first place. You have 
to have a legitimate purpose. They don't have any.
  So these are the same folks that sit on this committee, that are 
running this committee. Don't forget, they ran the two sham 
impeachments. The last sham impeachment was such a debacle, such an 
embarrassment to our institutions and the Constitution that the Chief 
Justice of the Supreme Court said, I am not going to show up.
  So who do we have and what do we see? Well, they are not going to 
talk about tonight that four witnesses--four witnesses have testified 
under oath that 4 days before January 6, President Trump authorized up 
to 20,000 National Guard troops. Why won't they present that? Because 
it is indicia of what we would call in law the mens rea or culpability, 
your state of mind. And the state of mind said, we have to protect the 
Capitol.

                              {time}  1330

  What that means is there is no intention to incite. There is no 
intention to cause harm. But you are not going to hear about that, even 
though that has been testified to four different times.
  The FBI has indicated pretty clearly that there was no collusion by 
President Trump to incite a riot on January 6. In fact, no collusion by 
President Trump or by any Member of Congress.
  In fact, FBI Director, Christopher Wray, testified in the Committee 
on the Judiciary that he could not call what happened there an 
insurrection. But that is not what you are going to hear from the 
Democrats because they love that term, because they are all about 
hyperbole.
  How about our former colleague, Denver Riggleman, a former Republican 
working for this committee? What did he say? Just the other day, he 
said: ``There is no smoking gun indicating that President Trump planned 
for the U.S. Capitol to be overrun by his supporters.'' But you are not 
going to hear that because this is--as they have accidentally said a 
couple of times--not about finding the truth but about narrative-
building, and distracting the American public from the disaster that 
the Biden administration, Speaker Pelosi and her Democrats in the 
House, Chuck Schumer and his Democrats in the Senate, has perpetrated, 
has foisted upon the American people.
  So you know what the Democrats want? They don't want us talking 
about: It costs me 85, 90 bucks to fill up my car with gas.
  They don't want you talking about that.
  They don't want you talking about: Hey, the size of that pack of 
tortillas that I just bought last week before it came out, they used to 
look like the regular corn tortillas. Now they look like mini 
tortillas. Same price, the same packaging.
  They don't want you talking about that.

[[Page H5442]]

  They don't want you talking about: Hey, kids, we are not going to be 
able to go on vacation this year.
  They don't want you talking about any of that because that is what 
Americans are talking about.
  They don't want you talking about the border. They don't want you 
talking about that.
  When I was down to the border twice last week--two different borders, 
three different sectors--everywhere I walked, there were people coming 
up. You know what these folks told me? They said, ``We love Joe 
Biden.'' In fact, in Mexico he has got a 52 percent approval rating, 
while he is only 32 percent in the United States.
  They want us to not talk about that stuff. They want to distract us. 
But the bad news for them is this: The reason you have to bring in an 
ABC producer is because your show stinks and that committee reeks, and 
no amount of production is going to give Liz Cheney charisma. Sorry to 
say. No amount of it is going to change and take that apart.
  I know that there are others who want to talk about this but I just 
have to ask four or five things, if I can, Mr. Perry.
  Mr. PERRY. Absolutely.
  Mr. BIGGS. Why is Nancy Pelosi off limits? Why isn't she testifying 
before that committee?
  Oh my goodness, we can't ask her what happened. We can't ask her what 
she knew, what she didn't know.
  We can't ask her why she didn't approve and encourage Mayor Bowser to 
accept the authorized and offered 20,000 National Guard troops.
  Why has the committee not released 14,000 hours of video of January 
6? Why is that missing?
  Why has the committee selectively, without appropriate context, 
leaked documents or testimony?
  Why did Adam Schiff come out here and put up a poster and later have 
to admit that, yeah, he had doctored the poster?
  Because they are lying. They altered evidence, as Mr. Perry said.
  I will just close with this: Committee member, Jamie Raskin, he loves 
to say that anybody who questions an electoral outcome of 2020 is 
telling the big lie.
  Of course, he questioned the 2016 election outcome. Was that the big 
lie? Hillary Clinton questioned that.
  Joe Biden has already said the 2022 midterms are going to be 
illegitimate. Why? Because he is going to get his butt kicked, that is 
why.
  I will tell you something. Jamie Raskin selectively edited video he 
used in the second Trump impeachment just a few days before the 
President was going to be vacating the Oval Office. If anyone is 
persisting in telling a big lie, it is members of the J6 Committee.
  That is why they have to bring in a producer. That is why they 
deleted the tweet from their star witness from tonight. And what did he 
say back then? He said the Proud Boys were organizing together.
  How many police were there at 11:22 on the steps of the Capitol? I 
Count 1.
  This is a deliberate act. And he wasn't talking about the people who 
came in. He said someone in authority left the door open and the mob 
walked in. That is their witness tonight. They deleted that text.
  This is an illegitimate committee. You are going to see illegitimacy 
on display meant to deceive the American people. That is what happens 
in former Soviet Union. That is what happens in Venezuela. That is what 
happens whenever tyrants and authoritarians get a little bit of power 
or think they have any.
  Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. 
Biggs).
  Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Nehls).
  Mr. NEHLS. Madam Speaker, Representatives Perry and Biggs speaking 
the truth here today.
  Madam Speaker, listen to these words: ``Sense of desperation and 
disappointment may lead to more of an incentive to become violent. 
Congress itself is the target. There has been a worrisome call for 
protestors to come to these events armed, and there is a possibility 
that protestors may be inclined to become violent. Propensity to 
attract white supremacists, militia members, and others who actively 
promote violence may lead to a significantly dangerous situation for 
law enforcement and the general public alike.''

  These words are taken directly from the intelligence assessment on 
January 3. So why didn't they request the National Guard? Why were the 
Capitol Police so ill-prepared?
  A couple of months ago, I had the opportunity to question then-D.C. 
National Guard Commander, General Walker. Now he is the House Sergeant 
at Arms.
  I asked General Walker, I said, ``General, if the National Guard 
would have been on our Nation's Capitol on January 4 as the 
intelligence called for, would January 6 have ever happened?'' And he 
said no.
  And I agree, General, I agree.
  Capitol Police leadership had the intelligence days and weeks in 
advance and did nothing with it. They let it happen, folks. The Capitol 
Police leadership team failed, and this sham committee continues to 
give them a pass.
  These hearings are clearly not about finding the truth. They are a 
sad attempt to put the blame on Donald Trump. This committee--make no 
mistake--this committee doesn't want to see Donald Trump as the 
Republican nominee in 2024 because they can't beat him.
  Never in the history of Congress has the majority party used their 
power to smear, destroy, and intimidate the minority party ahead of an 
election so brazenly on a public stage. They know they can't win 
elections fairly, so they will use every dirty trick in the book and 
try to cheat their way to a win. But the American people know better. 
They can see through this political theater and their voices will be 
heard at the polls in November of this year and in 2024.
  Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas. He is 
absolutely right.
  Look, I don't think it is a mystery that many of us on this side of 
the aisle have no love for the FBI Director. It would be my choice to 
remove him immediately and get somebody effective that would do the job 
and restore the dignity of the FBI. But that having been said, he said 
there was no insurrection. He said there was no collusion.
  And as you already probably know--or maybe you don't--you won't find 
out tonight--the President of the United States at that time ordered 
20,000 troops to be authorized to come to protect the Capitol days in 
advance.
  And as I said the day after, on January 7, I asked: What did the 
Speaker know and when did she know it? But we are not going to find 
that out, Madam Speaker. We are never going to know watching this show 
trial. This is something from a Third World country, where we use the 
instruments of Federal power to prevail upon and against our political 
adversary. That is what is happening right now.
  What did the Speaker know and when did she know it? And what about 
the 20,000 troops that were authorized by the President of the United 
States in advance but never asked for by the Speaker of the House--and 
as a matter of fact, declined by the Mayor of Washington, D.C.
  Madam Speaker, this is not the Mayor's city. This is not the Mayor's 
capital of the United States. This is the American people's capital. 
She has a duty and she failed in that duty. And now this sham 
organization called a committee here, where the Vice President is also 
the ranking member--not chosen by the minority. They just made it up. 
They could have chosen anybody off the street and said, that is who the 
ranking member is. And that is what they did because the verdict is 
already in for them.
  They already know. They already know what the outcome is for them. 
There is no due process here. There is no fairness here. There is no 
other side of the story here. There is just a prosecution where you 
stand there with your mouth taped shut. You can't call any witnesses. 
You can't have your attorney. Then they would like to convict people 
and send them away forever and never be heard from again. And that is 
what this is; the silencing of the American people.
  Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from Georgia (Mrs. Greene).
  Mrs. GREENE of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding. I really appreciate him bringing up these very important 
details

[[Page H5443]]

that I highly doubt we will hear anything about from the January 6 
Committee.
  You know, there are some very interesting facts that came out today, 
as a matter of fact. Reporting on the failure of this Chamber, this 
Capitol to be secured.
  And I will tell you something. On January 6, I was a brand new Member 
of Congress.
  Mr. PERRY. How many days had you been here, Representative Greene?
  Mrs. GREENE of Georgia. January 3 was my first day on the job.
  Mr. PERRY. So you had been here three days.
  Mrs. GREENE of Georgia. That is right. Three days.
  And I looked at the Capitol and thought this was the most secure 
building that I could possibly be in, at least in this city, possibly 
in the country, because it is our Nation's Capitol. And tragically, we 
found out that it was not. I was shocked by that.
  What amazes me is the overwhelming amount of evidence that the 
National Guard was requested to be here and it was continuously turned 
down. And the biggest shocker to me is that there were three people 
that turned it down. It was Chuck Schumer in the Senate, Nancy Pelosi 
in the House, and Mayor Muriel Bowser.
  Mr. PERRY. If I could interject for just a moment, who is in charge 
of security here in the House of Representatives?
  Mrs. GREENE of Georgia. The Sergeant at Arms.
  Mr. PERRY. Employed by?
  Mrs. GREENE of Georgia. Nancy Pelosi.
  Mr. PERRY. Right. The Speaker.
  Mrs. GREENE of Georgia. The Speaker of the House is the one in charge 
of the House Sergeant at Arms.
  And the House Sergeant at Arms and the Senate Sergeant at Arms turned 
down the request for the National Guard to keep all of us safe from the 
threats that they knew existed.
  Mr. PERRY. Are we going to find out if they got ordered to do that by 
the Speaker or by the leader in the Senate? Are we going to find that 
out tonight?
  Mrs. GREENE of Georgia. No, we will not hear that from the January 6 
Committee that spent millions of taxpayer dollars supposedly 
investigating January 6. I highly doubt we will hear that. But I want 
you to know that when we take back the majority, these will be the 
investigations that we take on.
  Now, I want you to know some other things that really bother me. As 
we have spoken about the failure and absolutely purposeful refusal to 
protect this Capitol by Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker of the House, Chuck 
Schumer, and Mayor Muriel Bowser, these are the failures. They did it 
on purpose.
  There are other things I don't think we will hear about tonight, and 
I remind everyone.
  Number one, we still do not know who the pipe bomber is. Who is the 
person? There are videos everywhere. It is all over the FBI website but 
we don't hear that coming out consistently from the January 6 
Committee.
  You know what else we don't hear enough about? We do not understand 
what is happening to the over 800 people who have been arrested and 
charged for the events on January 6. We don't know what is happening to 
them, and there are dozens of them right here in this city wasting away 
in the D.C. jail, being treated like political prisoners of war.
  And you know what? This is before they have been convicted of 
anything. They are there pretrial. And no one cares about them. No one 
on this January 6 Committee dares to ask a question, what is happening 
to these people and why their due process rights are being so 
flagrantly and horrifically violated, pretrial. Pretrial, they are 
sitting in that jail.
  Do you know they have begged to go to Guantanamo Bay because they 
think terrorists are treated better than they are treated here? But no 
one cares about them.

                              {time}  1345

  These people have been arrested and charged, and they are wasting 
away in jail.
  Do you want to know something else that we are probably not going to 
hear about? What about the fact that there is a man named Ray Epps? Do 
you know who is not in the D.C. jail? Ray Epps. Ray Epps is not in the 
D.C. jail, and I know because I went in the D.C. jail. I did not see 
him there. He also is on video over and over again telling people to go 
in the Capitol.
  Mr. PERRY. I am sure we will hear about Ray Epps this evening.
  Mrs. GREENE of Georgia. I don't think we are going to hear about Ray 
Epps. I don't think so. I don't think he is on the witness list.
  Do you know who else we probably won't hear about? The man on the 
scaffolding, the so-called scaffolding commander that told the crowd, 
told them, sent them, gave them orders to go in the Capitol. Storm the 
Capitol.
  I haven't heard about him being questioned, have you?
  Mr. PERRY. No, I have not.
  Mrs. GREENE of Georgia. No. Do you want to know something else? Here 
is a woman we don't hear anything about, a woman named Rosanne Boyland, 
who was trampled in the tunnel, trampled to death. We never hear 
anything about this woman. She died in the tunnel of this Capitol, and 
I saw the video myself when I was in the D.C. jail, from one of the 
people being held there pretrial, by the way, of her body being drug 
across the floor, and then it was taken somewhere else.
  Do you know what happened when they were dragging her body away? They 
pulled her away from someone that was giving her CPR. She was pulled 
away from lifesaving CPR. Why did that happen? Are we going to hear 
about that from the committee tonight? I doubt it. They don't care 
about Rosanne Boyland.
  Here is my major issue. We are representatives of the people of the 
United States of America, and all I hear from everyone in this body is 
all they care about is themselves. The American people are suffering 
from so many things happening from the decisions of this body, but the 
people in this body and the people in that committee don't care about 
Rosanne Boyland from Georgia, by the way. They don't care about her 
family. They don't care about justice for them. They don't care about 
anything else but, oh, what happened to us on January 6.
  Well, what happened to the American cities in 2020 that were burned 
and looted and destroyed because of BLM violence? Nothing. All that 
money raised on ActBlue for BLM? It went in their pockets. No one paid 
to rebuild those communities. Not at all.
  You know who else we probably won't hear about is Michael Byrd, who 
shot and killed Ashli Babbitt right out there. We don't hear about his 
reckless record of guns, which is all we have talked about all week in 
here. We aren't hearing about that. Why aren't we hearing about that 
record? Why? Why isn't he standing trial? He is not. He just gets to 
get away with it. It is on video; I bet you we won't see this video, 
but I have seen it. It is out there.
  Did you know Ashli Babbitt was trying to stop people from breaking 
in? That is on video. I have watched it over and over. She was trying 
to stop people from breaking in, and then she was shot and killed.
  Yes, a lot happened on January 6. Do you know what else--and the 
American taxpayers pay for this--there are surveillance cameras all 
over this building. If we really want to know the truth about January 
6, it is real easy. All we have to do is release the video footage, and 
everyone can see for themselves what exactly happened. I think the 
American people deserve that while they have to watch and go through 
this big cinematic production tonight and carrying on for weeks and 
weeks and weeks. And the American people pay for it, by the way. The 
American people deserve to see all the video surveillance, not just the 
little cut and pasted pieces that the January 6th Committee is going to 
show tonight.
  Most of all, I want to finish with this: There is something terrible 
happening in this process, and it is called defamation of character. 
The 45th President of the United States' character is being defamed and 
all of his staff and his family and all Republicans. Everyone's 
reputation is being defamed as lies are being told about all of us and 
President Trump just for politics, and it makes me sick. It absolutely 
disgusts me.
  If we are supposed to represent the American people, and we are 
supposed to do a good job and uphold this place

[[Page H5444]]

with honor and keep its reputation good for the people we serve, then 
we should be truthful. But what is about to happen tonight is not going 
to be truthful. It is going to be a political narrative, and it is all 
for politics. It is sickening.
  Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her comments. 
Like I said, if you have ever seen reality TV, you know in just a 
couple episodes it is not really reality.

  Now, I don't know how many of these you will go through this evening, 
and we just have a couple of minutes remaining, but I yield to the 
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Biggs), my good friend, to conclude with 
some of his thoughts before we wrap up here this afternoon.
  Mr. BIGGS. Madam Speaker, as I watch what this January 6th Committee 
has done, as it unfolds, and the constant attack of President Trump, 
here is what I find interesting: It wasn't too very long ago that Chuck 
Schumer stood with a rabble attacking the United States Supreme Court. 
Chuck Schumer said: We are going to come up on you like, Justices 
Kavanaugh and Gorsuch, like a whirlwind. You will know.
  He made threatening comments. And guess what? Last night, there was 
an assassination attempt. A gentleman has been arrested for attempted 
murder of Justice Kavanaugh. Not a peep from the President, not a peep 
from Nancy Pelosi, not a peep from anybody here.
  You had a President who said let's march peacefully up to the 
Capitol. Let's let them know you are here. Let's fight for our rights. 
Somehow, that is incitement.
  That is not incitement, but this committee that is there, they don't 
care about the truth. They don't care about equity. I don't even like 
saying that term, ``equity.'' How about equality before the law? They 
never are concerned with due process or equality before the law. That 
is a political, sham, narrative-building exercise to divert the 
attention of the American people away from the disastrous Biden 
policies.
  Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his comments. In 
the remaining 40 seconds I have, I will close by saying every day 
Americans wake up and they think it can't get any worse, yet somehow 
every day there is something new that actually makes it worse. Tonight 
is going to be no different. We are going to push the envelope to 
places we have never gone, a show trial right here in the Halls of 
Congress as a Supreme Court Justice is under threat.
  This is literally like a Third World country, and we have leaders in 
this government calling for Justice Kavanaugh--``You have released the 
whirlwind.'' That is what was said. Do not let this stand.
  Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 99 (Thursday, June 9, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2875-S2883]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   HONORING OUR PROMISE TO ADDRESS COMPREHENSIVE TOXICS ACT OF 2021--
                                Resumed

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under the previous order, the 
Senate will resume consideration of H.R. 3967, which the clerk will 
report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (H.R. 3967), to improve health care and benefits for 
     veterans exposed to toxic substances, and for other purposes.

  Pending:

       Tester/Moran amendment No. 5051, in the nature of a 
     substitute.
       Schumer amendment No. 5065 (to amendment No. 5051), to add 
     an effective date.


                   Recognition of the Majority Leader

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The majority leader is recognized.


                              Gun Violence

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, this year we have already seen more 
mass shootings in America than we have had days in the year--more than 
one a day on average. The prevalence of guns, their ease of access, and 
the hateful motivations of mass shooters have all mixed into a toxic 
brew that is tearing America apart. People are asking, what is going 
on, and why can't Congress protect us?
  Yesterday, our House colleagues heard from those affected most: the 
parents of a young girl murdered in Uvalde, a student who played dead 
by covering herself in her friend's blood, and the mom of a Buffalo 
survivor who painted the gruesome picture of the bullet holes on her 
son's neck, back, and leg.
  These were harrowing, gut-wrenching testimonies. That Congress has 
not acted in decades in response to these acts of violence is shameful. 
It used to be different. About 30 years ago, I was the author of the 
Brady bill and worked with Republicans and law enforcement to get 
strong gun safety laws passed. That was a different era. But the lesson 
from back then remains clear today: The right laws can make a real 
difference in reducing gun deaths. Because those laws were on the 
books, it is very likely that tens of thousands of people are alive and 
healthy who would not have been.
  Right now, the Senate is trying to break that streak of inaction--the 
30-year streak of inaction since we were able to pass Brady and the 
assault weapons ban--by working toward meaningful legislation on gun 
violence.
  Yesterday, a bipartisan group of Democrats and Republicans met again 
to continue working toward a bipartisan compromise. This morning, my 
colleague Senator Murphy reported that the group is making good 
progress, and they hope to get something real done very soon. As soon 
as the bipartisan group comes to agreement, I want to bring a measure 
to the floor for a vote as quickly as possible.
  The overwhelming consensus of our caucus, of gun safety advocates, 
and of the American people is that getting something real done on gun 
violence is worth pursuing, even if we cannot get everything that we 
know we need.
  The work of curing our Nation of mass shootings will continue well 
after

[[Page S2876]]

this debate concludes. But at this moment, we have a moral obligation 
to try for real progress because taking tangible steps to reduce gun 
violence is critically important.
  Americans are sick and tired of going through the same grieving cycle 
over and over again, only for Congress to do nothing. They are enraged 
that even after shootings in Sandy Hook, Parkland, San Bernardino, El 
Paso, Boulder, Pittsburgh, Atlanta, and so many others, that nothing--
nothing--has changed.
  We hope this time around something will change at last. I hope that 
very soon we can see a deal come together. I encourage my colleagues to 
keep their talks going so we can act on it very quickly.


                           January 6 Hearings

  Madam President, on the January 6 hearings, tonight, the Nation will 
tune in to the House Select Committee on January 6 as they begin their 
first public hearings on the Capitol insurrection. Tonight's hearings 
will be a watershed moment in the fight to protect our democracy from 
the Big Lie of the hard right.
  The committee will lay bare the truth that the American people must 
know; first, that there was tremendous violence. There are still many 
out there who say there wasn't violence. There was. The pictures show 
it. The eyewitnesses testify to it.
  And the committee will lay bare the truth that the American people 
must know; that Donald Trump was at the heart of a coordinated effort 
to overturn the 2020 elections, to overturn our constitutional order, 
and inflict permanent damage upon our democracy. It will be essential 
viewing.
  But in one of the most cowardly journalistic decisions in modern 
memory, FOX News--one of the biggest amplifiers of the Big Lie about 
January 6, about Donald Trump, and about the election--will not 
broadcast tonight's hearing.
  FOX News's decision not to air the biggest hearing in modern history 
should end any debate that they are not a real news organization. FOX 
News is rapidly becoming a propaganda machine of the hard right, and it 
is as plain as day that they are scared of their viewers learning the 
truth about January 6.
  FOX News's decision not to air the January 6 hearings is dangerous, 
cowardly, and shameful, given that they have spent more than a year 
spreading the Big Lie and misinforming their viewers.
  Instead of telling the truth, they have isolated their viewers in an 
alternative reality of conspiracy theories that is immensely damaging 
to our democracy. Even the so-called liberal media which FOX News 
regularly attacks tries to tell both sides.
  FOX News is afraid of telling both sides because they are afraid of 
the truth, and they are afraid their viewers may learn that FOX News 
has lied to them.
  I urge FOX News to change course very soon. The press has an 
obligation--always has had that obligation--not to hide the truth from 
the American people, no matter how painful or inconvenient.
  And as a nation, we have a duty to never forget what happened on 
January 6. The direct assault on our democracy and the dangers of that 
day, sadly, remain still with us.


                     Honoring our PACT Act of 2021

  Madam President, now, on the PACT Act, a happier note, today, the 
Senate will continue consideration of the most important veteran 
healthcare expansion in decades, the PACT Act, authored by my 
colleagues Senators Tester and Moran--bipartisan.
  We want to get this bill done as soon as we can. We can't have 
dilatory or destructive amendments to this bill because it is too 
important for our veterans' well-being to delay or destroy it.
  For years, I have worked extensively with veterans, veterans service 
organizations, and advocates, including Jon Stewart and John Deal, who 
all say that the VA rules must be changed to ensure sick veterans get 
the care they need.
  They volunteered, went off to war, and were exposed to toxins. That 
is a cost of war, and the American people cannot let them down.
  The bill, which could benefit 3.5 million veterans who have been 
exposed to toxic chemicals in the line of duty, represents that change. 
For the sake of our veterans, there is no reason--no reason--not to 
pass this bill A-S-A-P, and I hope that is precisely what we can do.


                                Shipping

  Madam President, on shipping, next week, the House is to vote on a 
much needed bill, passed unanimously by the Senate in April, to lower 
costs and relieve supply chains by reforming unfair shipping practices 
that hurt exporters and consumers alike.
  Rising costs are top of the mind right now for the American people, 
and one of the more flummoxing causes of inflation is the crushing 
backlog that we are seeing at our ports. We have all seen the pictures 
of scores of ships lining up in ports, from Los Angeles to Savannah, to 
Seattle, to my home port of New York and New Jersey.
  These backlogs have created serious price hikes. According to one 
study from earlier this year, the price to transport a container from 
China to the west coast of the United States costs 12 times--12 times--
as much as it did 2 years ago, and the American consumer is paying the 
price. And it hurts both ways when shipping costs go up: It affects 
exports that we send overseas and imports that come back. It is a 
double whammy, whacking the American people's pocketbooks and wallets. 
At the end of the day, the American consumer ends up paying the higher 
price.
  So I am very glad that the House will finally act on the Senate-
passed shipping bill next week. The shipping reform bill will help us 
lower costs. It will clear our ports, relieve our supply chains, and 
American families will feel the benefit.
  I want to thank my colleagues Senators Klobuchar and Thune, the 
authors of the legislation, as well as the fine work of Senator 
Cantwell, for leading this legislation earlier this year out of 
committee, onto the floor, and passing here in the Senate.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The Republican leader is recognized.


                           U.S. Supreme Court

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, 2 years ago, the Senate Democratic 
leader stood on the steps of the Supreme Court and threatened two 
Justices by name. ``You will pay the price,'' he shouted. ``You won't 
know what hit you.'' A month ago, after the precedent-breaking leak of 
a draft opinion, top Democrats intensified the reckless talk. Hillary 
Clinton said the Court was poised to ``kill and subjugate women.'' 
Leader Schumer and Speaker Pelosi said the Court would be ``ripp[ing] 
up the Constitution.'' Some of the most powerful people in the country 
pushing total hysteria over the possibility that Justices may--may--
overturn a decision that even Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said was 
badly reasoned.
  Far-left activists publicized Justices' private addresses and 
encouraged angry people to flock to their homes. President Biden and 
his White House were asked to condemn these intimidation tactics, and 
they refused. I wrote to Attorney General Garland about a month ago, 
asking why he wasn't enforcing the laws on the books already against 
judicial intimidation.
  Look, everybody saw where this climate might lead. So, yesterday 
morning, U.S. marshals arrested a deranged person who traveled to 
Washington from California in order to assassinate a Supreme Court 
Justice at his house. He has reportedly been charged with attempted 
murder. The FBI says the would-be assassin was armed and equipped for a 
break-in. He told authorities that he was trying to think about how to 
give his life a purpose. Apparently, it was only when he came across 
the Justice's address posted online that it occurred to him to attempt 
a murder-suicide. He explained that his problem with this Justice was 
ideological, citing abortion and the Second Amendment.
  While this would-be assassin was making his plan and traveling across

[[Page S2877]]

the country, House Democrats have spent weeks--weeks--blocking 
bipartisan legislation to strengthen security for the Justices and 
their families.
  This bipartisan bill passed the Senate unanimously in early May. 
Chairman Durbin is a strong supporter. But inexplicably--inexplicably--
this urgent and uncontroversial bill has been sitting on Speaker 
Pelosi's desk ever since. The same House Democrats whose irresponsible 
rhetoric has contributed to this dangerous climate are themselves 
blocking added security for the Justices and their spouses and their 
children. Even last night--last night--even after this arrest was 
made, even after a leftwing group published an ominous social media 
post concerning a school that a Justice's children attend, when Leader 
McCarthy asked consent to pass the uncontroversial bill, House 
Democrats objected to it.

  Meanwhile, the Biden Department of Justice, under Attorney General 
Garland, continues to flatly ignore section 1507 of the Criminal Code, 
which would appear to make it a Federal crime to protest at the homes 
of Federal judges to influence them over a pending case. That is the 
law right now.
  So this has been a shameful and disturbing two-step from Washington 
Democrats. First they use reckless rhetoric that helps fuel the 
dangerous climate, and then they refuse to do their jobs and address 
the problem. The same far left that has spent years trying to 
improperly pressure the Court is now aiding and abetting this illegal 
intimidation campaign through total inaction.
  So why won't President Biden call on his supporters to leave the 
Justices alone?
  President Biden, call on your supporters to leave the Justices alone.
  Why won't the Attorney General of the United States enforce existing 
law? Why won't the Speaker stop blocking a bipartisan security bill 
that passed the Senate unanimously?
  So it is hard to avoid concluding that perhaps some Democrats may 
want this dangerous climate hanging over the Justices' heads as they 
finish up this term--a disgraceful--disgraceful--dereliction of duty. 
This is antithetical to the rule of law. The Speaker of the House and 
the Attorney General must honor their oaths to the Constitution and do 
their jobs.
  I understand Democrats want to stage a big spectacle this week about 
what they claim is their opposition to political violence, but in 
reality, they are going out of their way to block concrete steps to 
prevent political violence.


                             Foreign Policy

  Madam President, now on an entirely separate matter, 1 year ago 
yesterday, the Biden administration announced its withdrawal from 
Afghanistan had reached a halfway point.
  Analysis after analysis has confirmed what was clear to many of us in 
real time: The President's shoddy plans for a reckless pullout were 
doomed to disaster from the start.
  Back in February, an Army investigation found that in the run-up to 
President Biden's botched retreat, his senior national security and 
diplomatic advisers were ``not seriously planning for an evacuation'' 
and not paying attention to ``what was happening on the ground.'' That 
is an Army investigation of the withdrawal.
  Last month, the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
Reconstruction blasted the administration's bad judgment before 
Congress. He explained that removing U.S. military and contractor 
support to our Afghan partners was ``the single most important factor'' 
in the collapse--the collapse--of Afghanistan's resistance to the 
Taliban.
  It is not just that this giant policy failure should have been 
foreseeable to the Biden administration; it was, in fact, foreseen. 
Experts spent months warning that the President's policies would create 
chaos. I spent months saying the very same thing.
  Now many of the worst predictions about the aftermath are coming true 
before our eyes. Our country and our partners are facing needlessly 
heightened risk from terrorists because of how the Biden administration 
botched Afghanistan. Yet the administration is still in denial.
  In a letter to Congress just yesterday, the Commander in Chief 
claimed the United States ``remains postured to address threats'' to 
both our homeland and our interests ``that may arise from inside 
Afghanistan.'' But the reality is that Pentagon leaders have been clear 
about the dramatic ways the withdrawal has limited our ability to 
identify, to target, and to strike terrorists in Afghanistan.
  The former commander of U.S. Central Command says that forcing U.S. 
air assets to travel longer distances to reach Afghan airspace means 
severely limiting the time they can spend actually performing 
counterterrorism missions--just as we predicted.
  A brandnew report from the lead inspector general for our ongoing 
counterterrorism operations further confirms that the Biden 
administration's mistakes have put us way, way behind the 
curve. Without human intelligence or bases in the country, the United 
States is already suffering from less insight into emerging terror 
threats. Our sources are drying up just as we predicted.

  We haven't conducted a single strike against a military target in 
Afghanistan since the last military personnel left Kabul, and that 
isn't because there aren't any terrorists there. As the IG report 
confirms, it is because of ``logistical challenges and limited 
intelligence.''
  The Taliban-Haqqani government in Kabul is not just a state sponsor 
of terrorism, it is literally a government made up of terrorists and 
kidnappers with deep ties to Al Qaeda.
  Even as the Biden team continues to pretend that over-the-horizon 
operations are not inadequate in Afghanistan, they are implicitly 
acknowledging that same insufficiency in other theaters. Last month, 
President Biden redeployed U.S. troops to Somalia, reestablishing a 
limited but real presence intended to help local partners prevent their 
country from becoming a terrorist haven. So President Biden's own 
actions in Somalia give rise to the false claims in Afghanistan. In 
point of fact, the longest term vision about counterterrorism this 
White House has managed to lay out is their obsession--obsession--with 
someday shutting down the Guantanamo Bay detention center entirely.
  I have yet to hear any coherent plans for what the Biden 
administration intends to do with the dangerous killers currently held 
there. Will they continue to rely on third countries to detain 
terrorists? That is the strategy that made possible the Taliban's 
massive jailbreak of thousands of hardened terrorists from Bagram after 
this administration fled Afghanistan.
  Does the administration intend to send terrorists to Syria to be held 
indefinitely by a nongovernmental entity like the Syrian Defense 
Forces? In that case, how long is the Biden administration prepared to 
remain in Syria to make sure that ISIS, Hezbollah, or the Assad regime 
can't facilitate another giant jailbreak?
  The American people and our coalition partners deserve a clear, 
coherent counterterrorism strategy that leaves our homeland safer and 
our partnerships stronger.
  The Biden administration is providing, unfortunately, exactly the 
opposite.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                           U.S. Supreme Court

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, before I begin, I would like to express 
my dismay at House Democrats' decision last night to block legislation 
to provide enhanced security for Supreme Court Justices and their 
families.
  Due to the unprecedented leak of an early draft of the Supreme 
Court's Dobbs decision and the resulting hysteria from members of the 
pro-abortion left, the Supreme Court asked Congress for additional 
authorities to protect Justices' families. This happened 4 weeks ago. 
And yesterday's arrest of an armed man near Justice Kavanaugh's home--a 
man who told police that he intended to kill a Supreme Court Justice 
and has been charged with attempted murder--made clear just how needed 
that protection is.

[[Page S2878]]

  The Supreme Court security legislation in question passed the Senate 
unanimously 4 weeks ago but has faced inexplicable delays in the House 
of Representatives.
  This should not be a partisan issue. The Senate Democratic Whip said 
just yesterday that the House should pass this legislation.
  And I really thought that yesterday's arrest of an individual bent on 
assassinating a Supreme Court Justice would have forced House Democrats 
to abandon political gains and provide this urgently needed protection.
  There is no excuse for further delay. One press report suggests that 
Democrats may be rethinking their opposition. I hope that is true. 
House Democrats should abandon the political games today and pass this 
legislation.


                             Student Loans

  Madam President, recent reporting suggests that President Biden may 
be contemplating forgiving $10,000 in Federal student loan debt per 
borrower. That is a bad idea for many reasons. It is difficult really 
to know where to start, but let me begin by pointing out the obvious: 
that forgiving $10,000 in Federal student loan debt will do absolutely 
nothing to address the underlying problem and, in fact, would likely 
make things much worse.
  The price of higher education has risen stratospherically in recent 
decades. The cost of 1 year of attendance at some colleges--just 1 
year--is more than many Americans' yearly salaries. And that is a 
problem. But forgiving $10,000 of student loan debt would do absolutely 
nothing to fix the problem of soaring tuition costs. As I said, it 
would very likely make things worse.
  What incentive would colleges have to rein in costs if they could be 
confident that part of their students' bill would eventually be picked 
up by the Federal Government; because, of course, no one should be 
deceived into thinking that student loan forgiveness would be a one-
time thing?
  One estimate suggests that the student loan burden in this country 
would return to its current amount within 4 years--4 years--of $10,000 
in debt being forgiven, and calls to forgive more debt would 
undoubtedly come much sooner.
  Future graduates are very likely to want the same deal that would be 
offered to graduates today--the wiping away of $10,000 in debt--which 
brings us to another problem: some students opting to take on 
unrealistic levels of debt to finance their educations.
  How much greater is that problem going to be if students think that 
the Government is likely to step in and forgive some of the debt that 
they have agreed to repay? It is very easy to imagine a student feeling 
free to take on more debt than he or she otherwise would, believing 
that the Government is likely to reduce the resulting debt burden.
  Another massive problem with President Biden's plan is, of course, 
its complete unfairness. Under President Biden's plan, an individual 
who just finished paying his or her student loans after years of work 
would not receive a penny. Meanwhile, a student who graduated a month 
ago and hasn't yet paid a dime on his or her loans could see a 
substantial part of his or her debt wiped away.
  The President's plan is also incredibly unfair to the tens of 
millions of Americans without any student loan debt who would be asked 
to subsidize a student loan debt of a small percentage of Americans. 
Somewhere around two-thirds of millennials have no student debt, either 
because they didn't attend college or didn't take out any loans to 
attend college. The president's plan is unfair to those who avoided 
loans by working their way through school or choosing a lower-cost 
college option. It is unfair to parents who worked for years to ensure 
that they could finance their kids' education. And it is unfair to 
those who chose not to attend a traditional 4-year college and, 
instead, trained in one of the many essential trades we depend on, from 
plumbing to air conditioning to broadband installation, at a 
significantly lower-cost community college or technical school.
  Another problem with the President's plan is what it would teach 
about the sanctity of contracts. While it may, at times, be ill-
advised, students freely enter into the agreements when they take out a 
loan. Should we really be teaching that agreements and contracts mean 
nothing, that people can incur debt and then not have to pay it off?
  Another important point to make here is that the average debt for 
undergraduate education in this country is not as crippling as it might 
be portrayed. Now, there is no question that there are students out 
there who were encouraged to take on unrealistic levels of debt and are 
currently struggling with huge debt burdens made up of private as well 
as Federal loans, but the average debt, the average debt for an 
undergraduate education is somewhere around $29,000. That is not chump 
change, for sure, but it is also not an unmanageable level of debt for 
the average college graduate--especially with the availability of 
extended repayment plans and income-driven repayment programs.
  Average student loan debt rises substantially for those with advanced 
degrees, and there are certainly those who take on far too much debt 
for graduate education, but it is also important to know that those 
with advanced degrees have higher--and in some cases much higher--
earning potential.
  Doctors, for example, take on medical debt north of $190,000 on 
average, but once they have completed their education and training they 
can expect to make a robust--sometimes a very robust--six figures per 
year, making repaying debt of that size a very feasible proposition.
  There is no question that the cost of higher education is out of 
control and that students sometimes take on unrealistic levels of debt 
to pay for it. But forgiving student loan debt is not the answer for 
the reasons I have mentioned, among others. Instead, we should be 
exploring ways to drive down education costs.
  We should be also highlighting affordable education options like our 
Nation's community colleges and technical schools. These institutions, 
like the outstanding tech schools we have in South Dakota, provide 
students with associate's degrees, certificates, apprenticeships, 
opportunities to learn a trade, and more.
  There are also things we can do to help students pay off loans 
without forcing taxpayers to shoulder the burden. In December of 2020, 
Congress passed a 5-year version of legislation that I introduced with 
Senator Warner to allow employers to help employees repay their loans. 
Our Employer Participation in Repayment Act amends the Educational 
Assistance Program to permit employers to make tax-free payments on 
their employees' student loans. It is a win for employees, who get help 
paying off their student loans. And it is a win for employers who have 
a new option for attracting and retaining talented workers.
  Our bill isn't a cure-all, but it will certainly help ease the pain 
of paying back student loans for a number of Americans. I am pleased 
that it was enacted into law for a 5-year period, and I hope at some 
point Congress will act to make it permanent.
  Another big thing we can do, of course, is to make sure that 
graduates have access to good-paying jobs. This is key to enabling 
people to pay off their debt, and we should resolve to build on the 
economic progress that we had made prepandemic and focus on policies 
that will allow our economy to thrive.
  Republicans are not alone in thinking that forgiving $10,000 in 
student loan debt is fraught with problems. As one Democrat Senator 
said:

       An across-the-board cancellation of college debt does 
     nothing to address the absurd cost of college or fix our 
     broken student loan program. It offers nothing to Americans 
     who paid off their college debts or those who chose a lower-
     priced college to go to as a way of avoiding going into debt 
     or taking on debt. . . . [R]really importantly, it ignores 
     the majority of Americans who never went to college, some of 
     whom have debts just as staggering . . .

  That is from one of our Democrat colleagues here in the Senate.
  The New York Times editorial board, not exactly known for toeing the 
Republican line, noted:

       Canceling this debt, even in the limited amounts the White 
     House is considering, would set a bad precedent and do 
     nothing to change the fact that future students will graduate 
     with yet more debt--along with the blind hope of another, 
     future amnesty. Such a move is legally dubious, economically 
     unsound, politically fraught and educationally problematic.

  That was from the New York Times editorial board.

[[Page S2879]]

  With inflation near a 40-year high, with the President's approval 
rating hitting a new low, and with Democrats' prospects for November 
looking less rosy, it is not exactly surprising that the President 
would look toward student loan forgiveness as a way of distracting 
voters or that some Democrats are reportedly pushing for student loan 
forgiveness as a way to boost their chances in November; but I very 
much hope that the President will decide that temporary political gain 
is not a good reason to put American taxpayers on the hook for billions 
of dollars in student loan debt that is not their own.
  As the New York Times noted, the President's plan is ``legally 
dubious, economically unsound, politically fraught, and educationally 
problematic.''
  I strongly, strongly encourage the President to abandon a plan that 
even the Democratic Speaker of the House has suggested he doesn't have 
the authority to implement.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Booker). The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                           Order of Business

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that, at 11:45 
a.m. today, the Senate proceed to executive session and vote on the 
confirmation of Executive Calendar No. 856, the nomination of Robert 
Steven Huie, as provided under the previous order, and that, following 
the vote, the Senate resume legislative session.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                           January 6 Hearings

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this evening, the Select Committee to 
investigate the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol will hold its 
first public hearing.
  For more than 10 months, the January 6 Select Committee has labored 
diligently to discover and document the truth about the day we nearly 
lost our democracy. This evening, the committee will begin to lay out 
publicly, for the first time, the coordinated plan in place to overturn 
the results of the 2020 Presidential election and prevent the peaceful 
transition of power to a new administration in America. Those are 
incredible words that I have just spoken, but they reflect the reality 
of January 6, 2021.
  Among the witnesses will be Capitol Police Officer Caroline Edwards, 
one of the more than 140 Capitol and Metropolitan police officers who 
was injured when the mob attacked the Capitol.
  To Officer Edwards and all of the police officers who defended 
American democracy that day and who continue to protect this Capitol 
every day, we owe more than our thanks.
  January 6 revealed to the world how fragile democracy can be, even in 
America. Keeping our democracy requires vigilance and truth. Often, it 
requires sacrifice, and there must be a willingness to accept that 
truth. It is regrettable--no, it is shameful--that our Republican 
colleagues in the Senate filibustered the creation of an independent, 
bipartisan commission to investigate what happened on January 6.
  I recall that moment, and I am sure the Presiding Officer does as 
well. It was slightly after 2 o'clock, just a few minutes after 2 
o'clock. Vice President Pence was presiding over the U.S. Senate as we 
went through the orderly, constitutional process of counting the 
electoral votes. I looked up from my chair to see the Secret Service 
come in and physically remove--quickly remove--the Vice President from 
that chair. The events that unfolded in the next few minutes were hard 
to imagine could ever occur in the United States of America. We were 
told to sit safely in our chairs, in that this was a secure Chamber, 
and be prepared for other staffers from around the Capitol to join us. 
Not 10 minutes later, a member of the Capitol Police stood before us 
and said: As quickly as possible, evacuate this Chamber.

  It is hard to imagine this in the United States of America. We have 
seen the videos. We know what happened. There is no doubt as to what 
happened that day and what an impression it must have left on the rest 
of the world. What would we think, at this moment in time, if a mob 
with battering rams beat down the doors of Parliament and entered the 
House of Commons and the House of Lords? Would we not say on this side 
of the ocean, my God, what has happened to the United Kingdom? Can this 
government survive? Can that country survive? The same questions were 
being asked about America because of that insurrectionist mob on 
January 6.
  The proposal was made--and it was a legitimate, thoughtful, good-
faith proposal--to establish a bipartisan commission to get to the 
bottom of it--who was behind it?--and to ask the hard questions. What 
role did President Donald Trump play in what unfolded after his rally 
on January 6, 2021? Some people don't even want to raise the question, 
let alone hear the answer.
  History demands the truth, unless we have reached the point that we 
saw in the times of the Soviet Union when they refused to print in 
their daily newspapers plane crashes. It was bad news, and they didn't 
want to peddle any bad news in the official partisan organ, Izvestia. 
No. That was the reality of the Soviet Union--deny the truth, rewrite 
history. We see the same thing occurring today, but the American people 
are going to learn the truth.
  All three major broadcast networks and all but one cable news network 
will carry this evening's hearing live. What cable news network might 
not require the broadcast of this? I am going to guess FOX News, and I 
am right. Think about that for a second. Clearly, to FOX News, which 
profits off the Big Lie of Donald Trump, it matters more to continue 
that relationship than to tell the truth to their viewers.
  The members of the Select Committee have undertaken their duty with 
uncommon courage, and I want to single out, in particular, Congressman 
Adam Kinzinger from the State of Illinois. We are not close friends, 
but we have worked on a few things together. I have the highest regard 
and admiration for the courage that he has shown throughout this 
travail; and the fact that he would volunteer, against the wishes of 
the Republican House leadership, to make this committee bipartisan is a 
tribute to his citizenship and to his commitment to this Nation.
  The same thing, of course, is true for Representative Liz Cheney. She 
has a lot at stake. Representative Kinzinger has announced his 
retirement. She continues to represent Wyoming, and I hope she will for 
many years to come. I may disagree with her on virtually every other 
issue, but I have respect for her courage in serving on this bipartisan 
committee.


                       Federal Bureau of Prisons

  Mr. President, on another topic, it is no secret that the Federal 
Bureau of Prisons has been plagued by misconduct. One investigation 
after another has revealed a culture of abuse, mismanagement, 
corruption, torture, and death that reaches all the way to the top.
  One of the most troubling investigations was published last week by 
National Public Radio and the Marshall Project. The title of the report 
reads: ``How the Newest Federal Prison Became One of the Deadliest''--
the facility in question I know well: U.S. Penitentiary Thomson. It is 
located in my home State of Illinois. In fact, it is a facility that I 
officially and originally encouraged the Federal Government to purchase 
in order to reduce overcrowding in high security prisons. The opening 
of U.S. Penitentiary Thomson was supposed to improve safety within the 
Bureau of Prisons, but the reality, sadly, has been the exact opposite.
  According to this report, seven inmates at U.S. Penitentiary Thomson 
have died in just 2 years. Five of them were reportedly murdered by 
other inmates; two died by suicide. And those deaths are just a 
snapshot of the grim reality of this facility--the deadly, grim 
reality. The investigation paints a picture of rampant abuse by prison 
staff. This alleged abuse includes the excessive use of two kinds of 
painful restraints--ambulatory restraints and four-point restraints. 
The ``four'' refers to each of a person's limbs, which, under this 
technique, are chained to a concrete bed, rendering the individual 
immobile.
  This is an American penitentiary. The Bureau of Prisons' protocol 
says

[[Page S2880]]

that these restraints should be used sparingly and only to 
momentarily--momentarily--restrain an inmate who presents an active 
danger to himself or others.
  According to this report, some guards at U.S. Penitentiary Thomson 
have, apparently, made a habit of regularly using these restraints on 
inmates--not momentarily but regularly. In some cases, inmates have 
reportedly been left chained for hours and days.
  A lawyer who has spoken with U.S. Penitentiary Thomson inmates said:

       [The inmates] are denied food. They are denied water. Many 
     of them report being left in their own waste. It's really 
     akin to a torture chamber.
  This is an American prison in my State.
  The use of restraints and shackles has become so common, inmates have 
coined a term to describe the scars they leave on their arms and legs. 
It is known as the ``Thomson tattoo.''
  The report also alleges that the staff at U.S. Penitentiary Thomson 
have gained a reputation for stoking tensions between cellmates. Make 
no mistake, this is a special management unit. These are inmates who 
can be very dangerous, and I understand that. I understood it when the 
penitentiary was opened.
  One example that was highlighted in this report is indicative of the 
challenge. It was the murder of Matthew Phillips, a U.S. Penitentiary 
Thomson inmate who died in 2020. Mr. Phillips was a Jewish man with a 
visible Star of David tattoo. The corrections officers at U.S. 
Penitentiary Thomson reportedly locked Mr. Phillips in a recreation 
cage with two known White supremacists. These inmates beat Mr. Phillips 
until he was unconscious, and he died from his injuries 3 days later. 
Both men have since been indicted by the Justice Department on murder 
and hate crime charges.
  Following the publication of this shocking report, I joined Senator 
Duckworth, my colleague from Illinois, and Illinois Congresswoman Cheri 
Bustos, sending a letter to the Justice Department's Inspector General 
Michael Horowitz. In it, we urged him to launch a full-scale, immediate 
investigation into the failures at Thomson prison.
  I spoke with General Horowitz yesterday. He confirmed that his office 
is investigating the deaths at Thomson, along with many other abuses in 
the Bureau of Prisons.
  But this report about U.S. Penitentiary Thomson is only the most 
recent look into the house of horrors that is the Bureau of Prisons, 
the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We already have ample evidence of a 
pattern of neglect and abuse that has been embedded in their 
bureaucracy.
  Consider, for instance, the Bureau's overuse of restricted housing--
the practice of separating inmates from the general prison population, 
isolating them alone or with one other person for 24 hours at a time. 
The practice can cause severe mental anguish for inmates and can 
severely harm the prospects for ever reentering society.
  Much like the use of four-point restraints, restricted housing 
should, as the Justice Department noted in 2016, ``be used rarely, 
applied fairly, and subjected to reasonable constraints.'' That is the 
standard, the published standard, of the Bureau of Prisons.
  During the Obama administration, I held two hearings, which are still 
fresh on my mind they were so gripping, on the issue of solitary 
confinement. Following those hearings, the Justice Department took 
steps to reduce and reform the Bureau of Prisons' use of restricted 
housing. We started to make real progress.
  Unfortunately, the progress was erased during the Trump 
administration. And since the former President left office, the Biden 
Department of Justice has had plenty of time to change course and 
leadership. And I have urged them to do so.
  A year and a half into this administration, nearly 8 percent of BOP 
inmates are still being held in restricted housing. That is the same 
level it was under President Trump. That is just plain unacceptable. 
The continued overuse of restricted housing and the alleged abuses at 
Thomson are among the many instances of misconduct and mismanagement 
that have occurred under the failed leadership of Bureau of Prisons' 
Director Michael Carvajal.
  In light of those earlier reports detailing similar failures, I 
called for Mr. Carvajal's resignation last November. So it was welcome 
news when, about 6 weeks after I asked for his resignation, he 
announced it. Mr. Carvajal said he was going to resign.
  But that was January. Now we are in June, and the Justice Department 
has shown little progress or urgency in naming Carvajal's replacement. 
As a result, he is still running and mismanaging the Bureau of Prisons.
  This recent investigation at Thomson makes it clear there are no 
excuses for further delay. So today I am calling on President Biden, 
Attorney General Garland, and Deputy Attorney General Monaco to do one 
of two things; either name a new reform-minded Director to replace 
Carvajal immediately or appoint an Acting Director until a permanent 
selection is made. This cannot wait. We need to act before another 
inmate dies in the custody and care of this Federal Government.
  In the coming weeks, the Senate Judiciary Committee, which I chair, 
will be holding a hearing on the Bureau of Prisons. We will examine 
these allegations of abuse at Thomson and other facilities. We need 
answers from the Biden administration on the failure to reduce the use 
of restricted housing, and we will discuss what BOP must do to address 
the staffing crisis that has contributed to this disastrous situation.
  The crisis demands the attention of the highest ranking officials 
within the Department of Justice. It has been long overdue. It is time 
for us to have competent, principled leadership at the Bureau of 
Prisons.
  I am not condemning every person who works at that Agency, for sure. 
I have met many of them and respect them. But those who are guilty of 
this misconduct need to be held accountable, and new leadership is 
imperative.
  It has been a long time since we have had that kind of competent, 
principled leadership. I believe that Attorney General Garland and 
Deputy Attorney General Monaco will choose the right leader to clear 
out the bureaucratic rot and improve with significant reforms. But we 
need to act quickly. Lives are at stake.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Texas.


                              Gun Violence

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, over the last couple of weeks, many of us 
have spent a lot of time thinking about the horrific shootings in 
Uvalde, Philadelphia, Buffalo, and elsewhere.
  Unfortunately, these are familiar scenes that we have seen before, 
and we would like to try to find a way to reduce the likelihood of 
their reoccurrence in the future if there is anything we can do here in 
the Senate to make that possible. So I have been working particularly 
with Senator Murphy, who was my partner on the Fix NICS bill that we 
passed in 2018.
  Senator Murphy comes from a blue State, Connecticut; I come from a 
red State, Texas. Yet, in that example, we were able to take the 
horrible events of Sutherland Springs, where innocent parishioners were 
gunned down at a small Baptist church outside of San Antonio, and take 
out of that tragedy something good, which is a bill we call Fix NICS, 
the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.
  Since that was signed into law, 11\1/2\ million new records have been 
uploaded into the background check system, and I believe that has saved 
lives.
  You will recall, in that case, the shooter was a veteran of the U.S. 
Air Force, but, unfortunately, he had a troubled history: felony 
convictions, domestic violence, mental health adjudications. None of 
that was in the background check system. It should have been, and it 
would have disqualified him had it been known. But he did what so often 
happens; he lied, and then he bought--the lie and buy--and tragedy 
ensued. We were all sickened by these shootings, and we are hyperaware 
of the public interest.
  The most common refrain I hear is: Do something. Do something. 
Unfortunately, it gets a little less specific after that what exactly 
should be done, and that is where the hard work begins.
  But, as before, I am optimistic that we can find something that 
protects the rights of law-abiding citizens under our Constitution, 
under the Second Amendment, who, I believe, are not a

[[Page S2881]]

threat to public safety, and focus on people with criminal records, 
people with mental health challenges, like young Salvador Ramos in 
Uvalde, TX; like Adam Lanza at Sandy Hook.
  The profile is pretty well established--young, alienated, 
disaffected, mentally challenged boys who lack access to treatment 
which will help them manage their mental illness and who descend into a 
pit of despair, ultimately resulting in their desire not only to harm 
themselves but to take other people with them. That profile is well 
established in the scientific literature. And the New York Times did an 
excellent piece a couple of weeks ago on that profile. So I think that 
gives us a little bit of a roadmap for the sorts of things we might do 
to deal with that.
  What makes this more challenging than, for example, the Fix NICS bill 
after Sutherland Springs is that was a singular point of failure. Here, 
we see multiple points of failure, and I think we need to address as 
many as we can.
  So as I mentioned, the mental health issue looms large. We know that 
during the 2 years, where many students were isolated at home, trying 
to keep up with their studies virtually, many of them have languished, 
many of them have fallen behind. And because they have been isolated 
from their peers at a time when their social development is the most 
important, many of them have fallen into despair, exacerbating 
underlying problems that they may have in the first place. So trying to 
figure out how to support our schools and our communities with 
resources needed to address the mental and emotional health of people 
who are struggling, particularly young students, that seems like an 
obvious area that we can work on together.
  Obviously, school security is important. The initial reports in 
Uvalde were that the door was propped open that Salvador Ramos entered. 
Later, we found out that, no, it wasn't propped open, but the lock 
didn't work. He just walked right in.
  There are a lot of studies and best practices when it comes to what 
is necessary to secure our schools. If we can secure our airports post-
9/11, we can secure our schools to make sure that people who should 
come in and out of those schools can do so relatively easily but that 
outsiders cannot and particularly those who are a threat to the safety 
of those students.
  I think all of us want to try to find ways to reduce the likelihood 
of something like this happening again, and school districts across the 
country are eager to get our help and guidance to harden their 
infrastructure to provide for the personnel, resource officers--that is 
the local police officer on the school campus. Those are things that I 
think would diminish the likelihood of another Uvalde.
  Mental health and school safety seem to me as kind of no-brainers, in 
a sense, where I don't think there is a lot of division between that 
side of the aisle and this side of the aisle.
  But we are also looking at ways to keep guns out of the hands of 
people who already, by law, are prohibited from having them. I am not 
talking necessarily about expanding the background check system; I want 
to make sure the background check system works.
  What makes this challenging is Salvador Ramos showed up after his 
18th birthday as if he were born yesterday. For purposes of the 
background check system, there was no insight into his many mental 
health challenges or terroristic threats of fellow students, 
potentially drug use, and other things that if he were an adult, he 
could not pass a background check. But because of the fact that 
juvenile records are typically sealed and are not part of the NICS 
review, the merchant who sold him the firearms he used didn't know 
anything about his track record.
  But we know how, as I said earlier, that he fits a familiar profile. 
He shot his own grandmother because she wanted him to go back to school 
after being out of school for the last 2 years. He engaged in self-
mutilation, self-cutting, tortured animals, made threats against his 
fellow students, threatened sexual assault against his fellow female 
students, and made threats that he would, in fact, do what he 
ultimately did online. He was a ticking timebomb.
  So if there is some way for us to look back into the sorts of records 
that would disqualify an adult if they had occurred post-18--because 
they would have been public records available to the National Instant 
Criminal Background Check System--if there is a way to look back and 
identify people like Salvador Ramos, who, by virtue of his mental 
health and other problems, we would know he should not be able to 
purchase a firearm legally.
  A couple of States--I think it is South Carolina and Virginia--
voluntarily upload mental health adjudications for 17-year-olds. We 
can't compel other States to do that, but we can sure provide--we can 
facilitate other States doing so and incentivize their populating the 
NICS background check system with this necessary information for 
juveniles, who ultimately will end up--they will turn of age and be 
able to buy a firearm, and we need to know ahead of time, for purposes 
of the background check system, what those records look like.
  So there are a number of things that we could do. One suggestion is, 
for example, to take a look at the background check process itself for 
18- to 21-year-olds in particular since that is the population we are 
focusing on based on this profile.
  Under current law, if you go in and buy a firearm and you have a 
clean record, you can pass your background check pretty quickly. In 90 
percent of cases, that is actually what happens. The average processing 
time is 2 minutes. In most cases, the system returns a binary result: 
You either pass or you don't pass, you fail. When you fail, that means 
you can't purchase a firearm.
  Now, the Congress, the Senate--in particular, Senator Coons from 
Delaware and I sponsored a bill that would notify local police when 
somebody goes in to take a background check and fails because they 
don't qualify. Many times, the local law enforcement knows more about 
these people and would be interested to know that they tried to 
illegally purchase a firearm and were denied.
  But in about 10 percent of the gun purchases, the background check is 
not resolved immediately. The system returns a yellow light, which 
means additional review is required. For example, if you have a common 
name like John Smith, the search may pull records for somebody else, 
for the wrong person with the same name who is prohibited from 
purchasing a gun. It could also be caused by incomplete criminal 
history--for example, if somebody is convicted of assault but on 
further examination, you find out it was domestic violence, which is a 
prohibited category. You would also learn whether it was a felony or a 
misdemeanor.
  In those cases, the FBI, under current law, already has 3 days in 
which to complete the background check. The problem is, under current 
law, there are no finish--the seller still sells the gun, and we have 
an incomplete record.
  Dylann Roof, I believe, was the name of the shooter at the Mother 
Emanuel Church in Charleston, SC. As it turned out, he had a 
misdemeanor drug offense that was not uploaded into the background 
check system.
  Now, it is a disqualifying condition if you are addicted to or a 
frequent user of illegal drugs, but because the background check system 
did not allow enough time to include that information--maybe, just 
maybe, he would have been denied the purchase of the firearms that he 
ultimately used to kill those innocent people that day.
  So what we are looking at is the possibility of--in those cases where 
there is what I will call a yellow flag or an indication that further 
review is necessary--an extended period of time, for this class of 
purchasers between 18 and 21, for the background check system to 
complete their review.
  Well, I have said it before, and I will say it again: I don't believe 
law-abiding, mentally well gun owners are going to commit mass 
shootings or are a threat to public safety. I know within the Senate, 
we have a number of people who are sportsmen; who enjoy target 
shooting, let's say; who believe that they need to exercise their 
Second Amendment rights in order to protect their family and their 
homes. They are not a threat. So blanket limitations or prohibitions on 
those law-abiding citizens who are not a threat to public safety and 
never will be, to me, strikes as overreach.
  We are not talking about a discretionary right; we are talking about 
a

[[Page S2882]]

constitutional right. But I do believe that the Second Amendment and 
sound public policy are not mutually exclusive here, and that is the 
needle we are trying to thread here. So adding juvenile records to the 
NICS system is a commonsense way to ensure we have a complete picture 
of the buyer's history.
  Then, of course, there is the scandal of our mental health delivery 
system in the United States today. Back in the sixties, when people who 
had mental health challenges were institutionalized, we finally figured 
out that that didn't work very well; it was inhumane. The theory was 
that there would be created some safety net in communities across the 
country where people could turn; where the police, if they answered a 
9-1-1 call and they realized that this isn't a criminal, that this is 
somebody going through a mental health crisis--where the police could 
take people where they could actually get help, get treated, get 
counseling, and get better. That doesn't exist today in many 
communities--in the major cities perhaps, even in suburban areas, but 
Uvalde, TX, population 15,000, not so much.

  So we are looking at ways to expand the community-based mental health 
system. Senator Stabenow and Senator Blunt have a great proposal that 
would extend the current eight-State pilot program nationwide. Now, is 
that solely related to what happened at Uvalde or what happened in 
Buffalo or what happened in Philadelphia? No, but it would address the 
larger underlying challenge of more and more Americans falling through 
the cracks.
  While we know most people in a mental health crisis are not going to 
commit acts of violence, we also know that 60 percent of the gun-
related deaths are suicides. And as it occurred to me like a light went 
off in my head, Salvador Ramos, Adam Lanza, and others of this profile 
of young men, in addition to the multiple homicides they commit, they 
commit suicide. They know they are not going to make it out alive.
  So addressing this mental health crisis that affects our country and 
particularly where we fail these young men who feel like they have 
nowhere else to turn, who become increasingly isolated, become 
increasingly desensitized to the idea of taking someone's life because 
they are sitting in their room playing video games, killing people 
virtually all the time, and then, in their bizarre fantasies, decide to 
extend those fantasies to taking not only their own life but the lives 
of other innocent people.
  So this is challenging, Mr. President, and there is no doubt about 
it, but we can do this. We can do this. Sometimes politics is called 
the art of the possible, and I think this is possible. Is it going to 
be perfect? Are we going to not have to revisit some other scenario 
where people have fallen through the cracks or where vulnerabilities 
are exposed? No, we can't be sure that this is one and done. But I do 
believe there is a sense of urgency, not only here in the Congress but 
in the White House and across the country. We have all heard from our 
constituents, who are in anguish over what has happened in Uvalde and 
elsewhere. The cry is to do something. Like I said, that is not very 
specific. And I understand, but it is up to us to try to find what is 
the right set of policies that would respect the rights of law-abiding 
citizens under the Constitution but at the same time address what we 
know is a huge mental health crisis in this country and make sure that 
the systems that are in place work, like the National Instant Criminal 
Background Check System.
  We need to populate that system with the relevant information that 
would disqualify somebody, if they were an adult, if it occurred while 
they were a juvenile. There are ways we can do that. We can incentivize 
that. We can take a look back in some cases. We can allow the National 
Instant Criminal Background Check System, in those limited cases where 
they need to do further review, to see that the information is 
complete.
  We can figure this out, and I think, on a bipartisan basis, there is 
a will to do so. Around here, if there is a will, there is a way, and I 
believe we do have the will and we will find a way.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, secondly, I would ask unanimous consent 
that I be allowed to speak even though it may go a moment or two longer 
and that the vote be delayed to allow me to complete my remarks.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                     Honoring Our PACT Act of 2021

  Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I want to speak this morning really to 
America's veterans and provide an update on our work to get our toxic 
exposure legislation across the finish line.
  The Senate is in the midst of considering the Sergeant First Class 
Heath Robinson Honoring Our PACT Act. This is historic. It is 
bipartisan.
  I hope that we can keep it becoming, when something is bipartisan, 
that it is historic because we ought to be able to solve these problems 
for veterans and really for Americans in a way that brings us together 
and not pulls us apart, and this is an effort to show that that can be 
done. This legislation will deliver on a promise we made as a country 
to take care of our service men and women, both when they deploy and 
when they come home.

  The Heath Robinson Act will provide access to healthcare and benefits 
for millions of veterans who are sick from illnesses connected with 
toxic exposures.
  When we send our warfighters into harm's way, it is with the 
understanding that we will have their back. When they come home bearing 
physical, mental, or invisible wounds of war, we care for those wounds. 
Toxic wounds should not be treated differently.
  John Buckley, a retired U.S. Army colonel from Andover, KS, told me:

       Our Soldiers were put into dangerous situations in Iraq and 
     Afghanistan. And many who suffered from their wounds or made 
     the ultimate sacrifice have been cared for by our nation. 
     Unfortunately, many too have been overlooked and ignored. 
     Especially those who are suffering from injuries after having 
     recurring and prolonged exposure to toxic fumes, burn pits 
     and other environmental hazards.

  This legislation is designed to address what the retired colonel told 
me.
  Another Army colonel, this one from Leavenworth, KS, Pat Proctor, who 
served in Iraq and Afghanistan, shared that many of the men and women 
he served with are facing health challenges from being exposed to 
toxins while deployed. He said:

       There is no telling--[there is no telling]--how many of us 
     will be impacted as we get older.

  I know many of our veterans live with the lingering fear, will the 
toxic exposures from their service catch up with them and leave them 
with a debilitating disease? And if that happens, will the VA be there? 
Will Americans be there for them with the healthcare and benefits they 
need?
  William Turner, the former deputy commander general of support for 
Kansas's own Fort Riley First Infantry Division, told me:

       Our Veterans have served in multiple locations where they 
     have been exposed to a number of toxins that have resulted in 
     them developing serious illnesses, and they often struggle to 
     gain access to health care and benefits that help alleviate 
     some of the pain and suffering they are experiencing.

  Sometimes we think these issues are something people in Washington, 
DC, are talking about, but what we are trying to address is the real 
circumstances of real Americans who have served our Nation and who are 
deserving of our attention.
  The former deputy commanding general went on to say--to note this:

       It is absolutely imperative that we pass this bill to 
     guarantee exposed veterans receive permanent access to health 
     care.

  Moving legislation through Congress can be a slow and frustrating 
process. However, this week, when the Senate began debate on our bill, 
I was encouraged by the resounding show of confidence. This bill--to 
move forward on this bill, that vote was 86 Senators in favor.
  We are now focused on an amendment process and will continue working 
as quickly as the Senate will allow to get this bill to the House and 
back on its way to the President's desk.
  Whether Democrat or Republican, every Member of this Chamber 
represents veterans at home, and I firmly

[[Page S2883]]

believe that every Member in this Chamber cares about those veterans. 
Issues related to veterans often have a way of bringing us together to 
find consensus, and that is what we have been attempting to do and we 
will continue to do as we sort out what amendments could be considered.
  We were able to deliver veterans choice through the MISSION Act, 
landmark mental health legislation through the John Scott Hannon Mental 
Health Improvement Act, and I believe we can do that again on this 
legislation to deliver care and benefits to all generations of toxic-
exposed veterans.
  This country is good at recognizing the physical wounds of war, and 
we are getting better at recognizing the mental wounds of war, but no 
longer can we ignore the wounds of war from toxic exposure--the wounds, 
like Agent Orange before it, that may not arrive until years later.
  Throughout the remaining procedural votes on the Heath Robinson Act, 
I urge my colleagues with remaining questions or concerns to reach out 
so we can all, together, deliver on this promise to those who have 
borne the battle. I look forward to working with my colleagues to see 
that this bill crosses the finish line soon.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 13, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4564-S4566]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                           U.S. Supreme Court

  Mr. President, I am here on a different subject. I will now turn to 
that subject.
  This is the 18th time that I have come to the floor to expose the 
dark money scheme that has captured and controlled our Supreme Court.
  Over the last 2 years, I have, over and over, exposed how dark money 
operatives, working from the shadows, have installed Supreme Court 
Justices handpicked--handpicked--by the minions of far-right donors.
  I have exposed the key front groups through which this Court-packing 
operation is driven and the tactics that the schemers have used to hide 
the dark money donors who pull its strings.
  And when you take a close look at the scheme, the little spider that 
you find at the center of the dark money web behind it is a character 
named Leonard Leo.

[[Page S4565]]

  From his perch at the dark money-funded Federalist Society, Leo 
crafted a reputation as the Court-capture scheme's puppet master. The 
key to his craft is an armada of phony front groups that shuffle dark 
money back and forth, around and amongst each other, to deploy as spin, 
as propaganda, as political ads, or as hidden campaign funding.
  During Donald Trump's time in office, Leonard Leo brokered the scheme 
to have the Federalist Society or--more accurately--the big secret 
donors behind the Federalist Society handpick Trump's Supreme Court 
nominees. Remember that list we all heard about?
  Leo coordinated the dark money propaganda machine that kept the heat 
on Senate Republicans to confirm those nominees, and he supported the 
big donors' doctrine factories where donor-approved fringe legal 
doctrines are concocted for the anointed judges to weaponize from the 
Bench.
  Look no further than the recent West Virginia v. EPA decision 
weaponizing the doctrine factory-concocted major questions' doctrine. 
And this was no small scheme. The latest estimate from earlier this 
year is that these big donors put $580 million, more than half a 
billion dollars, into Leo's network of Court-capture front groups.
  Well, little did we know, that was just the beginning. Last month, 
ProPublica and the New York Times broke the news that a reclusive, far-
right billionaire supercharged Leo's dark money operation with a $1.6 
billion donation to a Leo front group. You heard that right, $1.6 
billion into this dark money operation.
  The man behind this new slush fund is a billionaire named Barre Seid, 
and even the way the donation was made was creepy and clandestine. Seid 
and Leo devised a plan to transfer all the shares in an electronics 
company to Leo's front group, on the way to selling that company.
  So when that company sold for $1.6 billion, it all went straight to 
Leo's group and, by the way, helped Seid avoid what would have been 
roughly $400 million in taxes.
  Seid has a long history of funding far-right front groups. Here is 
how ProPublica characterized what Seid calls his ``attack 
philanthropy.''

       Seid has funded climate denialism as well as a national 
     network of state-level think tanks that promote business 
     deregulation and fight Medicaid expansion. He's also 
     supported efforts to remake the higher education system in a 
     conservative mold, including to turn one of the nation's most 
     politically influential law schools into a training ground 
     for future generations of right-wing judges and justices.

  So let's unpack all of that, starting with the climate denialism. The 
``climate denialism'' that they are referencing came from a group that 
he funded called the Heartland Institute. I have talked about the 
Heartland Institute on the floor before in my ``Web of Denial'' 
speeches.
  Heartland is a dark money disinformation mouthpiece for fossil fuel 
interests. In 2012, Heartland compared climate scientists to the 
Unabomber. So you can see it is a classy bunch.
  According to one of Seid's advisers, he was Heartland's major patron, 
and he even convinced his business's chief financial officer to join 
Heartland's board of directors.
  If that isn't creepy enough for you, we move on to the national 
network of State-level think tanks that promote business deregulation 
and fight Medicaid expansion.
  That is a reference to the State Policy Network, a web of dark money 
front groups that pump into State legislatures the propaganda and 
legislation designed by fossil fuel and other corporate interests.
  The State Policy Network has also received millions from DonorsTrust, 
which has been called the ``dark money ATM of the right,'' a central 
node of the rightwing Koch dark money network.
  The service that DonorsTrust provides is to scrub the identities of 
actual donors. It creates dark money. Anonymity is key for these 
donors, many of whom have financial interests behind their political 
schemes that they really don't want disclosed.
  If a fossil fuel billionaire, say, wants to run ads against me in 
Rhode Island--folks will get the joke. So the real donor's identity 
gets laundered through groups like DonorsTrust and comes out under 
other groups with names like--I am making this one up, but they sound 
this way ``Rhode Islanders for Peace and Puppies and Prosperity.''

  All of that, of course, leaves citizens in the dark about both the 
actors and the plot in the politics in which they are supposed to be 
active participants. And that brings us to Seid's project to ``turn one 
of the nation's most politically influential law schools into a 
training ground for future generations of right-wing judges and 
justices.'' That is a reference to Antonin Scalia Law School at George 
Mason University, a central cog in the right-wing doctrine factory.
  The cog was not always named Antonin Scalia Law School. In 2016, 
George Mason received $10 million from the Charles Koch Foundation, 
plus another $20 million from an anonymous donor, orchestrated by that 
same Leonard Leo, and one of the strings attached was that George Mason 
rename its law school after Scalia.
  When folks at George Mason University, a public university, pushed 
for answers about all of this, the university, after a legal battle, 
had to disclose that renaming the law school wasn't the only string 
attached to that $20 million donation.
  Leo and his donor wanted input over faculty hiring. And that legal 
battle also unearthed the name of the anonymous donor: Barre Seid. And 
all of that brings us back to Seid's $1.6 billion to the Leonard Leo 
dark money apparatus.
  Remember that with $0.6 billion, Leo was able to orchestrate a dark 
money takeover of our Supreme Court, stacking it with far-right 
Justices, who have already delivered massive victories for their 
donors: overturning Roe v. Wade, undermining the government's power to 
combat climate change, throwing out century-old commonsense gun 
regulations.
  If he can do that with $0.6 billion, imagine what kind of damage he 
will be able to do with $1.6 billion to squirt out as dark money 
through his armada of phony front groups.
  Leo's already dispensed $153 million to Rule of Law Trust, which 
appears to exist solely to funnel money to other dark money groups and 
another $16.5 million to his own Concord Fund. If you have been 
watching these ``Scheme'' speeches, you will remember that the last 
time I addressed the scheme in this Chamber, I laid out how the Concord 
Fund and its corporate twin, the 85 Fund, are the central nodes in a 
collection of phony front groups that deploy fictitious names, 
fictitious names to mask their connections.
  The coordinated and colocated front groups, Concord Fund and 85 Fund, 
operate through the fictitious names Judicial Crisis Network and Honest 
Elections Project, among other fictitious names. So, yes, you have got 
this right. In this dark money netherworld, the front groups have front 
groups.
  With this new billion-dollar slush fund, Leo can take those efforts 
to entirely new levels: more voter suppression, which is the job of 
Honest Elections Project; more abortion bans, which was the 
accomplishment of Dobbs; more climate denial, which was powered by West 
Virginia v. EPA and the earlier EPA decision by the Supreme Court about 
the Clean Power Plan; more power for corporations, which is, of course, 
the constant goal of this dark money operation; more disinformation; 
and more dirty dark money in politics--sluiced around inside this 
covert apparatus until it gets squirted out through even more phony 
front groups.
  This dark money slime will ooze everywhere. With pivotal elections 
coming up this fall, this slime will ooze out through your television 
sets, through your mailboxes, through your telephone, all of it 
designed to smear and lie to benefit far-right donor interests.
  The phony front group squirting out the slime will have innocuous-
sounding names, but make no mistake, hiding behind many of them will be 
Leo and his secretive billionaire backers.
  While this tactic isn't new, it has been perfected by the rightwing. 
It began with the Koch brothers, who spent the last decade pumping dark 
money into our politics, producing a decade of successful climate 
obstruction, until finally we got the Inflation Reduction Act passed 
with the first real climate measures Congress has

[[Page S4566]]

ever passed, but because of the Koch brothers' pressure, we had to rely 
entirely on Democrats to get that bill passed. We did not get one 
Republican vote in the Senate. We did not get one Republican vote in 
the House.
  Constant assaults on workers' rights, endless attacks on the 
Affordable Care Act, and, of course, the rightwing billionaires own big 
payoff, big tax cuts for billionaires--it is probable that for all of 
the money that got thrown into this dark money apparatus by rightwing 
billionaires, some of them probably made more money than that back from 
the tax cuts that were delivered for them under the Trump 
administration. This is a it-pays-to-play dark money operation.
  And the result is that all this dark money has reduced the once Grand 
Old Party to the political operation of a handful of extremist 
megadonors.
  The dark money assault on our democracy is not over. Right now, 
Leonard Leo, his rightwing donors, and their dark money apparatus are 
devising the next phases of the scheme.
  They have already captured the highest Court in the land, but they 
will not stop until they have enacted their entire radical agenda. They 
will turn their sights on State courts, on city councils, on local 
school boards--anywhere they can find a way to subvert democracy with 
dark money.
  So now is the time to fight back, and the first step is to pass the 
DISCLOSE Act. It is way long past time that we shine the light on the 
dark money schemers.
  You may recall that in the Citizens United decision, by a vote of 8 
to 1, even that Court said that dark money is corrupting. That is an 
established principle of the Citizens United decision.
  Well, if it is corrupting, we ought to get rid of it, because the 
American people deserve to know who captured their Supreme Court and 
who keeps flooding our politics with dark money.
  When you spend that kind of money, there is a motivation, and voters, 
citizens, deserve to know.
  To be continued.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 9578 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 9578

To provide that Donald J. Trump is ineligible to again hold the Office 
   of President of the United States or to hold any office, civil or 
                   military, under the United States.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           December 15, 2022

 Mr. Cicilline (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Bowman, Ms. Brownley, 
Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Carson, Mr. Casten, Ms. Chu, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
    Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
 DeSaulnier, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Evans, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Green of Texas, 
 Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
Lamb, Ms. Lee of California, Mr. Lieu, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
 McNerney, Ms. Newman, Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Roybal-
Allard, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Takano, Ms. Tlaib, Mr. Torres of New York, 
    Mr. Vargas, Ms. Velazquez, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Williams of 
  Georgia, and Ms. Wilson of Florida) introduced the following bill; 
          which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide that Donald J. Trump is ineligible to again hold the Office 
   of President of the United States or to hold any office, civil or 
                   military, under the United States.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Section 3 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the 
        Constitution of the United States states: ``No person shall be 
        a Senator or Representative in Congress, or elector of 
        President and Vice President, or hold any office, civil or 
        military, under the United States, or under any state, who, 
        having previously taken an oath, as a member of Congress, or as 
        an officer of the United States, or as a member of any state 
        legislature, or as an executive or judicial officer of any 
        state, to support the Constitution of the United States, shall 
        have engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the same, or 
        given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof.''.
            (2) Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment states: ``The 
        Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriate 
        legislation, the provisions of this article.''.
            (3) The Presidency is an office under the United States.
            (4) Mr. Donald J. Trump did engage in insurrection against 
        the United States by mobilizing, inciting, and aiding those who 
        attacked the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021, to 
        disrupt certification of the 2020 Presidential Election as 
        required by the Twelfth Amendment to the Constitution and the 
        Electoral Count Act of 1887 (3 U.S.C. 15), and a majority of 
        both the House of Representatives and the United States Senate 
        concluded as much through the House of Representatives' vote to 
        impeach Mr. Trump for high crimes and misdemeanors and the 
        majority of the Senate voting to convict Mr. Trump of 
        Incitement of Insurrection on February 13, 2021, with a vote of 
        57-43.
            (5) Evidence has come forward that Mr. Trump and his 
        advisors strategically refused to accept the results of the 
        2020 Presidential Election in November 2020 and attempted to 
        cast doubt on the election results, including as follows:
                    (A) Recorded testimony by Jason Miller, former 
                Trump Campaign Senior Advisor, played during the June 
                13, 2022, hearing held by the Select Committee to 
                Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
                Capitol (hereinafter referred to as the ``January 6th 
                Committee'') revealed that Rudy Giuliani, Mr. Trump's 
                lawyer, urged Mr. Trump to declare victory on election 
                night. Mr. Miller recalled Mr. Giuliani saying 
                ``They're stealing it from us. Where did all the votes 
                come from?''.
                    (B) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by 
                William Stepien, former Trump Campaign Manager, 
                revealed that he encouraged Mr. Trump not to declare 
                victory but rather to say that votes were still being 
                counted and it was too early to declare a winner. Mr. 
                Stepien testified that Mr. Trump disagreed with this 
                approach.
                    (C) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by Mr. 
                Stepien alluded to a divide within the White House 
                between ``Team Normal'' and those insistent on 
                challenging the election, including Mr. Giuliani.
                    (D) The January 6th Committee presented evidence in 
                an October 13, 2022, hearing that an October 31, 2020, 
                draft statement prepared by Tom Fitton, an outside 
                advisor for Mr. Trump, indicated a plan for Mr. Trump 
                to declare victory on the night of the 2020 Election 
                before all ballots were counted or the final results 
                were known, claiming that all ballot-counting must stop 
                at that point in the evening.
            (6) Evidence has shown that Mr. Trump attempted to 
        implement a detailed strategy, drafted by his lawyer, John 
        Eastman, to have Mr. Mike Pence refuse to certify the 2020 
        Presidential Election results on January 6, 2021, despite Mr. 
        Trump and his advisors being repeatedly advised that the plan 
        was unconstitutional, including as follows:
                    (A) A Memo from John Eastman to Mr. Trump outlined 
                a 6-point detailed strategy, titled ``January 6 
                scenario,'' to overturn the 2020 Presidential election.
                    (B) Mr. Eastman's plan involved Mr. Trump asking 
                Mr. Pence to refuse to certify certain electoral votes 
                from 7 States, announcing that there were no electors 
                validly appointed from these States and these States' 
                votes would need to be discarded, then announce the 
                majority of the valid electors voted for Mr. Trump 
                instead of Joseph Biden.
                    (C) The memo continued that if Members of Congress 
                opposed this unlawful change in the slates of electors 
                for these States, Mr. Pence was to declare that neither 
                candidate would reach the needed 270 electoral votes, 
                then call for the vote to be made by the House of 
                Representatives in a voting system that would assign 
                each State one vote, understanding that Republicans 
                controlled a majority of States and would most likely 
                vote for the re-election of Mr. Trump.
                    (D) Recorded testimony by Marc Short, Mr. Pence's 
                Chief of Staff, played during the June 16, 2022, 
                January 6th Committee hearing made clear that John 
                Eastman presented legal theories to Mr. Pence that 
                suggested that he had the authority to reject electors 
                who voted for President Biden. Mr. Short testified that 
                Mr. Pence was unconvinced by these theories, and in his 
                book, Mr. Pence wrote that he ``had told the president 
                many times that the vice president, as president of the 
                Senate, is afforded no authority to reject or return 
                votes to the states and no vice president in history 
                had ever asserted that authority.''.
                    (E) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by Mr. 
                Short confirmed that Mark Meadows, former White House 
                Chief of Staff, acknowledged to him multiple times 
                before January 6, 2021, that the Vice President had 
                ``no role'' in changing the results of an election.
                    (F) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by Mr. 
                Miller revealed that Pat Cipollone, former White House 
                Attorney, expressed his belief that Mr. Eastman's 
                theory was ``nutty,'' and had told Mr. Eastman that he 
                thought so.
                    (G) In the same hearing, Greg Jacob, former counsel 
                to Mr. Pence, testified that Mr. Eastman acknowledged 
                in a January 5, 2021, conversation that if the matter 
                went in front of the Supreme Court of the United 
                States, they would lose, 9-0. Mr. Pence confirmed this 
                in his book, writing: ``. . . even Eastman had conceded 
                to Mr. Jacob that rejecting electoral votes was a bad 
                idea and any attempt to do so would quickly be 
                overturned by a 9-0 vote on the Supreme Court.''.
                    (H) In the same hearing, Mr. Jacob further 
                testified that Mr. Eastman acknowledged in that same 
                conversation that no other Vice Presidents, past or 
                future, should have the authority to reject the results 
                of an election. Despite this, Mr. Eastman reaffirmed to 
                Mr. Jacob that Mr. Pence ought to reject the results of 
                the election on January 6th.
                    (I) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by Eric 
                Herschmann, former White House Attorney, revealed that 
                Mr. Eastman acknowledged that he was willing to accept 
                that there may be violence as a result of his efforts 
                to overturn the election.
                    (J) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by Mr. 
                Short revealed that Mr. Pence advised Mr. Trump that 
                the Vice President had no legal or constitutional 
                authority to interfere with an election. In his book, 
                Mr. Pence wrote of the first time he heard of 
                challenging the election results: ``. . . there was no 
                ambiguity in the Constitution or the law about the role 
                of the vice president, and I never believed that the 
                vice president's role was anything more than 
                ceremonial.''.
                    (K) In his book, Mr. Pence also wrote that Mr. 
                Trump questioned why Mr. Pence opposed Congressman 
                Louie Gohmert's lawsuit filed in Federal court asking 
                ``a Texas judge appointed by President Trump to declare 
                that [Mr. Pence] had `exclusive authority and sole 
                discretion' to decide which electoral votes should be 
                counted.''. Mr. Pence said that Mr. Trump ``came on 
                strong'' and said to him: ``I don't want to see `Pence 
                Opposes Gohmert Suit' as a headline this morning'' and 
                asked Mr. Pence ``if it gives you power, why would you 
                oppose it?''. Pence also wrote: ``I told [President 
                Trump], as I had told him many times before, that I did 
                not believe I possessed the power under the 
                Constitution to decide which votes to accept or reject. 
                He just kept coming.''. Mr. Pence said that Mr. Trump 
                replied by saying: ``You're too honest'' and told Mr. 
                Pence that ``hundreds of thousands are gonna hate your 
                guts'' and ``people are gonna think you're stupid.''.
                    (L) Mr. Pence wrote in his book that Mr. Trump told 
                him that ``[Mr. Pence had] the absolute right to reject 
                electoral votes,'' and told Mr. Pence ``You can be a 
                historic figure . . . but if you wimp out, you're just 
                another somebody.''.
                    (M) Mr. Pence also wrote in his book that Mr. Trump 
                told him ``I think you have the power to decertify.''. 
                Mr. Pence wrote that he told the President again that 
                he did not believe he had the authority, and that such 
                authority ``belongs to the elected representatives of 
                the people''. When Mr. Pence said that they had a duty 
                to support and defend the Constitution, Mr. Trump 
                reportedly called him ``naive'' and later suggested 
                that he would ``have to say that [Mr. Pence] did a 
                great disservice''.
                    (N) Mr. Jacob testified in the June 16, 2022, 
                January 6th Committee hearing that in the evening of 
                January 6, after the violence had been quelled, Mr. 
                Eastman contacted him to ask whether Mr. Pence would 
                consider ``one more relatively minor violation'' by 
                delaying the certification of votes for ten days.
                    (O) Mr. Trump and members of his administration 
                reportedly ran a ``command center'', which has also 
                been referred to as a ``war room'', in the days leading 
                up to and on January 6 at the Willard InterContinental 
                Washington, DC, hotel, with the purpose of preventing 
                the certification of Joseph Biden's victory in the 2020 
                Presidential election.
                    (P) This ``command center'' reportedly served as a 
                central location for members of Mr. Trump's 
                administration to attempt to convince legislators not 
                to vote for the certification of the 2020 Presidential 
                election results and to call on Mr. Trump's supporters 
                to pressure elected officials not to certify those 
                results.
                    (Q) Those working at the ``command center'' also 
                reportedly attempted to pressure Mr. Pence to delay or 
                block the certification of the 2020 Presidential 
                election results.
                    (R) Recorded testimony by Eric Herschmann, former 
                White House Attorney, played during the June 16, 2022, 
                January 6th Committee hearing revealed that Mr. 
                Giuliani seemed to concede on the morning of January 6 
                to Mr. Herschmann's belief that the Vice President had 
                no authority to reject the results of the election, 
                admitting: ``Look, I believe that you're probably 
                right.''.
                    (S) Despite advice that the Vice President could 
                not reject electors, including from Mr. Pence, on 
                January 5, 2021, Mr. Trump tweeted that ``The Vice 
                President has the power to reject fraudulently chosen 
                electors''.
                    (T) On January 6, 2021, when Mr. Pence did not 
                attempt to reject the electors, Mr. Trump tweeted: 
                ``Mike Pence didn't have the courage to do what should 
                have been done to protect our Country and our 
                Constitution, giving States a chance to certify a 
                corrected set of facts, not the fraudulent or 
                inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously 
                certify. USA demands the truth!''. In Mr. Pence's book, 
                reflecting on the rioters ``ransacking the Capitol'' 
                and some of them chanting ``Hang Mike Pence!'', he 
                wrote that ``[President Trump] had decided to be part 
                of the problem.''.
            (7) Evidence has shown that Donald Trump intentionally cast 
        doubt on the legitimacy of the 2020 Presidential election 
        through promoting unfounded theories of voter and election 
        fraud, despite being advised no significant fraud existed, 
        including as follows:
                    (A) Donald Trump spent months promoting the false 
                narrative that the 2020 Presidential Election was 
                fraudulent, tweeting and making statements including: 
                ``[b]ecause of the new and unprecedented massive amount 
                of unsolicited ballots which will be sent to `voters', 
                or wherever, this year, the Nov 3rd Election result may 
                NEVER BE ACCURATELY DETERMINED, which is what some 
                want'' on September 17, 2020; ``We have to win the 
                election. We can't play games. Go out and vote. Do 
                those beautiful absentee ballots, or just make sure 
                your vote gets counted. Make sure because the only way 
                we're going to lose this election is if the election is 
                rigged,'' on August 17, 2020; and ``With Universal 
                Mail-In Voting (not Absentee Voting, which is good), 
                2020 will be the most INACCURATE & FRAUDULENT Election 
                in history . . . It will be a great embarrassment to 
                the USA. Delay the Election until people can properly, 
                securely and safely vote???'' on July 30, 2020.
                    (B) Recorded testimony by former Attorney General 
                Bill Barr played during the June 9, 2022, January 6th 
                Committee hearing revealed that Mr. Barr had told Mr. 
                Trump that ``the idea of saying the election was stolen 
                and putting out this stuff . . . was bullshit.''.
                    (C) Recorded testimony by Mr. Barr played during 
                the June 13, 2022, January 6th Committee hearing 
                revealed that Mr. Trump complained that the Department 
                of Justice was not investigating claims of election 
                fraud, to which Mr. Barr replied that the Department 
                would investigate credible and specific claims, but the 
                Department was not an extension of the President's 
                personal legal team and suggested the election fraud 
                claims were ``just not meritorious''.
                    (D) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by Mr. 
                Barr further revealed that he found Mr. Trump's 
                allegations about the Dominion voting machines 
                perpetuating fraud to be disturbing: ``. . . 
                `disturbing' in the sense that I saw absolutely zero 
                basis for the allegations.''.
                    (E) Recorded testimony by Ivanka Trump, Mr Trump's 
                daughter, played during the June 9, 2022, January 6th 
                Committee hearing revealed that she accepted Mr. Barr's 
                conclusion that there was no evidence of fraud 
                sufficient to overturn the election.
                    (F) In a June 13, 2022, January 6th Committee 
                hearing, Al Schmidt, former City Commissioner of 
                Philadelphia, testified that there was no significant 
                evidence of voter fraud in the 2020 election in his 
                State like Mr. Trump had claimed.
                    (G) In the same hearing, Byung J. ``BJay'' Pak, 
                former U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of 
                Georgia, testified that Mr. Trump requested that he 
                investigate a video which he believed showed election 
                workers pulling out a suitcase of ballots in Atlanta, 
                Georgia. An investigation revealed that the suitcase 
                was in fact an official lockbox, and Mr. Pak confirmed 
                his investigations found no evidence of widespread 
                voter fraud sufficient to undermine confidence in the 
                election results in Georgia. Mr. Pak reportedly 
                resigned in January 2021 in response to pressure from 
                Mr. Trump to overturn the results in Georgia.
                    (H) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by 
                Richard Donoghue, former acting Deputy Attorney 
                General, revealed that Mr. Trump was repeatedly 
                informed that allegations of voter fraud were not 
                supported by the evidence. Mr. Donoghue stated that as 
                each conspiracy theory was debunked, Mr. Trump 
                ``wouldn't fight us on it, but he would move on to 
                another allegation.''.
                    (I) Recorded testimony by General Mark Milley, 
                Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, played during an 
                October 13, 2022, January 6th Committee hearing 
                revealed that, in an Oval Office meeting after the 
                election, either Mr. Trump or Secretary of State Mike 
                Pompeo acknowledged that President-Elect Biden would be 
                taking over as President.
                    (J) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by 
                Alyssa Farah, former White House Communications 
                Director, revealed that, a week after the election had 
                been called for President-Elect Biden, Mr. Trump 
                acknowledged his election loss in private, saying, 
                ``Can you believe I lost to this effing guy?'' in 
                reference to President-Elect Biden.
                    (K) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by 
                Cassidy Hutchinson, former Aide to then-Chief of Staff 
                Mark Meadows, revealed that Mr. Meadows told her that 
                Mr. Trump repeatedly confided to Mr. Meadows that he 
                had lost the election but wanted to continue to try to 
                overturn the result.
            (8) Evidence has shown that Mr. Trump, after the November 
        2020 Presidential Election, tried to have the results 
        overturned through intimidation of State officials and 
        attempting to have voting machines seized, including as 
        follows:
                    (A) The January 6th Committee presented evidence in 
                a July 12, 2022, hearing that on the evening of 
                December 18, 2020, Donald Trump was visited in the 
                White House by Sidney Powell (attorney for Mr. Trump), 
                Michael Flynn (former National Security Adviser for Mr. 
                Trump), and Patrick Byrne (founder of Overstock.com) 
                for a private, unplanned meeting. The Committee showed 
                a draft Executive order which ordered the Secretary of 
                Defense to seize States' voting machines and appoint a 
                Special Counsel (Ms. Powell) to prosecute perpetrators 
                of election fraud.
                    (B) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by Pat 
                Cipollone, former White House counsel, revealed that he 
                was of the opinion that Ms. Powell, Mr. Flynn, and Mr. 
                Byrne were not giving Mr. Trump good legal advice. Mr. 
                Cipollone testified that when he expressed his concerns 
                to Mr. Trump, the aforementioned three began 
                ``attacking [him] verbally''.
                    (C) Hon. Jeffrey A. Rosen, former Acting Attorney 
                General, testified in a June 23, 2022, January 6th 
                Committee hearing that Mr. Trump asked the Department 
                of Justice in late December to seize voting machines 
                from State governments, which Mr. Rosen insisted they 
                had no authority to do.
                    (D) In the same hearing, Richard Donoghue, former 
                acting Deputy Attorney General, testified that because 
                they refused to say that there was election fraud, Mr. 
                Trump threatened in a December 31, 2020, meeting to 
                remove both Mr. Donoghue and Mr. Rosen from their 
                positions, saying: ``People tell me that I should just 
                get rid of both of you, I should just remove you . . . 
                Maybe something will finally get done.''.
                    (E) Mr. Trump ``publicly and privately attempted to 
                impede Georgia officials'' from certifying Georgia's 
                election results in favor of Joseph Biden, by calling 
                Georgia's Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger an 
                ``enemy of the people'' for refusing to overturn 
                Georgia's election results and by placing 
                ``inappropriate pressure on the Office of the U.S. 
                Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia'' to 
                pursue baseless voter fraud claims, according to 
                documents from the 2021 impeachment.
                    (F) In a June 21, 2022, January 6th Committee 
                hearing, the Committee played a recorded interview with 
                Mike Shirkey, the then-Republican majority leader of 
                the Michigan State Senate, in which Mr. Shirkey 
                revealed that he received nearly four thousand text 
                messages after Mr. Trump publicly disclosed Mr. 
                Shirkey's personal cellphone number on Twitter in an 
                effort to pressure Mr. Shirkey to hold a vote to 
                decertify the 2020 election results in Michigan.
                    (G) After Al Schmidt, former City Commissioner of 
                Philadelphia, said that he believed that there was no 
                significant evidence of voter fraud, Mr. Trump tweeted 
                that Mr. Schmidt ``refuse[d] to look at a mountain of 
                corruption and dishonesty'', and Mr. Schmidt and his 
                family members began to receive specific and targeted 
                threats.
                    (H) In an October 13, 2022, January 6th Committee 
                hearing, the Committee presented a recorded call 
                between Mr. Trump and Secretary Raffensperger in which 
                Mr. Trump told Secretary Raffensperger he wanted to 
                ``find 11,780 votes'', which would be ``one more than'' 
                Mr. Trump would need to prevail against President-Elect 
                Biden. During that same call, Mr. Trump implied that 
                Secretary Raffensperger would potentially face legal 
                consequences if Secretary Raffensperger did not find 
                the votes Mr. Trump requests.
                    (I) In a recording played in a June 21, 2022, 
                January 6th Committee hearing, Gabriel Sterling, Chief 
                Operating Officer of the Georgia Secretary of State, 
                said that election workers were being directly 
                threatened by those who believed the results of the 
                election were fraudulent. He said of the violence 
                perpetrated against election workers: ``It has to stop. 
                Mr. President, you have not condemned these actions or 
                this language. Senators, you have not condemned this 
                language or these actions. This has to stop. We need 
                you to step up. And if you're gonna take a position of 
                leadership, show some. My boss, Secretary 
                Raffensperger, his address is out there. They have 
                people doing caravans in front of their house. They've 
                had people come on to their property. It has to stop. 
                This is elections. This is the backbone of democracy. 
                And all of you who have not said a damn word are 
                complicit in this.''.
            (9) Evidence has shown that on January 6, 2021, Mr. Trump's 
        intention was to encourage a mob to go to the Capitol to stop 
        the certification, where lawmakers and Mr. Pence were present, 
        including as follows:
                    (A) At around 1:30 in the morning of December 19, 
                2020, Mr. Trump sent out a tweet urging his supporters 
                to come to Washington, DC, on January 6: ``be there, 
                will be wild!''.
                    (B) The January 6th Committee presented evidence in 
                the July 12, 2022, hearing that Mr. Trump's tweet 
                launched a barrage of activity online, where previously 
                unconnected right-wing extremist groups began 
                coordinating plans to arrive in Washington, DC, for 
                January 6.
                    (C) In the same hearing, the January 6th Committee 
                presented evidence that Homeland Security in 
                Washington, DC, was aware that these violent groups 
                were planning to arrive in the city.
                    (D) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by 
                Katrina Pierson, former campaign advisor to the Trump 
                Campaign, revealed that she was concerned that these 
                groups may cause trouble at the January 6 rally, and 
                expressed her concerns to Mr. Meadows.
                    (E) In the same hearing, the January 6th Committee 
                presented evidence that Mr. Trump made last-minute 
                edits to his rally speech to specifically reference Mr. 
                Pence.
                    (F) Cassidy Hutchinson, former aide to Mr. Meadows, 
                testified in a June 28, 2022, January 6th Committee 
                hearing that the administration was aware that violence 
                was likely on January 6, 2021, before that date 
                occurred, and made no moves to prevent such violence.
                    (G) In the same hearing, Ms. Hutchinson testified 
                that on the morning of January 6, the former Chief of 
                Staff was made aware of people with weapons on the 
                National Mall but seemed untroubled.
                    (H) In the same hearing, Ms. Hutchinson testified 
                that Mr. Trump was furious that the rally area was not 
                at maximum capacity and wanted the magnetometers 
                removed so that attendees with weapons could enter. 
                ``They're not here to hurt me,'' Ms. Hutchinson 
                recalled Mr. Trump saying. ``Let my people in. They can 
                march to the Capitol from here.''.
                    (I) In an October 13, 2022, January 6th Committee 
                hearing, the Committee presented evidence that revealed 
                the Secret Service was aware that portions of the crowd 
                gathered outside of Mr. Trump's rally at the Ellipse 
                were armed. Mr. Trump was informed of the likelihood 
                that part of the crowd was armed, but he nevertheless 
                held the rally and instructed the crowd to descend upon 
                the Capitol.
                    (J) In the June 28, 2022, January 6th Committee 
                hearing, Ms. Hutchinson testified that Mr. Giuliani 
                told her that January 6 would be a ``great day'' and 
                that Mr. Trump would ``look powerful.''.
                    (K) On January 6 at his rally at the Ellipse, Mr. 
                Trump said: ``Democrats are trying to steal the White 
                House . . . [y]ou can't let it happen. You can't let it 
                happen'', and that ``[T]hey're not taking this White 
                House. We're going to fight like hell, I'll tell you 
                right now.''.
                    (L) Mr. Trump also said on that day: ``If Mike 
                Pence does the right thing we win the election . . . we 
                become president and you are the happiest people . . . 
                Mike Pence is going to have to come through for us and 
                if he doesn't, it's a sad day for our country.''.
                    (M) Mr. Trump also said: ``I said something is 
                wrong here, something is really wrong, can't have 
                happened and we fight, we fight like hell, and if you 
                don't fight like hell you're not going to have a 
                country anymore . . . [W]e are going to try--give our 
                Republicans, the weak ones because the strong ones 
                don't need any of our help, we're try--going to try and 
                give them the kind of pride and boldness that they need 
                to take back our country. So let's walk down 
                Pennsylvania Avenue.''.
                    (N) In a June 28, 2022, January 6th Committee 
                hearing, recorded testimony by former White House aides 
                Nick Luna and Max Miller revealed that Mr. Trump was 
                serious in his intention to go to the Capitol with the 
                crowd.
                    (O) In the same hearing, Ms. Hutchinson also 
                testified that Mr. Trump was furious when informed that 
                he could not go to the Capitol himself. Ms. Hutchinson 
                testified that she was told that Mr. Trump attempted to 
                grab the steering wheel of the car himself to make 
                Secret Service take him to the Capitol.
                    (P) The January 6th Committee presented evidence in 
                a July 21, 2022, hearing that while the insurrection 
                was occurring, Mr. Trump sat in the White House dining 
                room and watched coverage of the insurrection on Fox 
                News for more than two and a half hours.
                    (Q) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by Mr. 
                Cipollone revealed that at no point did Mr. Trump 
                contact or give orders to any law enforcement agencies 
                to intervene.
                    (R) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by 
                Kayleigh McEnany revealed that Mr. Trump contacted 
                Senators from his place in the dining room, encouraging 
                them to delay the certification.
                    (S) In the same hearing, recorded testimony by Mr. 
                Cipollone revealed that he, Ivanka Trump, Eric 
                Herschmann, and Mark Meadows, among others, believed 
                Mr. Trump should make a public statement in response to 
                the growing violence at the Capitol. Mr. Cipollone 
                remarked that Mr. Trump could have gone to the White 
                House briefing room to make a statement at any point.
                    (T) The January 6th Committee presented evidence in 
                the same hearing that Donald Trump, Jr., texted Mr. 
                Meadows on the afternoon of January 6, 2021, saying 
                ``He's got to condemn this shit. Asap. The capitol 
                police tweet is not enough.''. Sean Hannity also texted 
                Mr. Meadows expressing a similar sentiment.
                    (U) The January 6th Committee presented evidence in 
                the same hearing that minority leader Kevin McCarthy 
                called Mr. Trump directly, urging him to call off the 
                violence. When Mr. Trump refused, Mr. McCarthy 
                reportedly reached out directly to Ivanka Trump and 
                Jared Kushner, asking for assistance.
                    (V) Mr. Trump, while the insurrection was occurring 
                at the Capitol, told the people who stormed the Capitol 
                via a social media video, ``[W]e love you, you're very 
                special.''.
                    (W) Mr. Trump, on social media referring to the 
                insurrection that occurred at the Capitol, declared: 
                ``[t]hese are the things and events that happen when a 
                sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously 
                & viciously stripped away.''.
                    (X) In the June 28, 2022, January 6th Committee 
                hearing, Ms. Hutchinson testified that the former Chief 
                of Staff seemed largely unconcerned about the reports 
                of violence and that Mr. Trump wanted to be alone.
                    (Y) In the same hearing, Ms. Hutchinson testified 
                that the former Chief of Staff told her that Mr. Trump 
                felt that the former Vice President deserved the ``Hang 
                Mike Pence'' threats, and that the protestors were 
                doing nothing wrong.
                    (Z) In the same hearing, Ms. Hutchinson testified 
                that allies and supporters were urging Mr. Trump to 
                tell the protestors to go home, but he was very 
                reluctant to do so.
                    (AA) The January 6th Committee presented evidence 
                in the July 22, 2022, hearing that in the hour before 
                the Joint Session reconvened following the end of the 
                violence, Mr. Giuliani called several Republicans in 
                Congress, urging them to delay the certification of the 
                votes.
            (10) Evidence shows that Mr. Trump's team recognized the 
        illegality of their and Mr. Trump's actions, and that he may 
        have been unfit to serve in office, including as follows:
                    (A) The January 6th Committee presented evidence in 
                a June 16, 2022, hearing that Mr. Eastman emailed Mr. 
                Giuliani on January 11, 2021, saying: ``I've decided 
                that I should be on the pardon list, if that is still 
                in the works.''.
                    (B) Ms. Hutchinson testified in a June 28, 2022, 
                January 6th Committee hearing that members of Mr. 
                Trump's cabinet were discussing a potential invocation 
                of the Twenty-fifth Amendment.
                    (C) Ms. Hutchinson testified in the same hearing 
                that Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Meadows both sought 
                Presidential pardons in the days after January 6, 2021.

SEC. 2. INELIGIBILITY OF DONALD J. TRUMP TO HOLD ANY OFFICE UNDER THE 
              UNITED STATES.

    Under section 3 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of 
the United States, Donald J. Trump is ineligible to again hold the 
Office of President of the United States, or to hold any office, civil 
or military, under the United States.

SEC. 3. NO IMPACT ON EXISTING STATE AND FEDERAL PROCESSES FOR ENFORCING 
              SECTION 3 OF THE FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT.

    This Act shall not supersede, foreclose, or impair any local, 
State, or Federal authority, cause of action, or legal process that can 
give effect to section 3 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the 
Constitution of the United States.
                                 <all>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3758 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3758

To direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a study 
  to assess the unintended impacts on the health and safety of people 
 engaged in transactional sex, in connection with the enactment of the 
 Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 
  and the loss of interactive computer services that host information 
related to sexual exchange, to direct the Attorney General to submit a 
    report on human trafficking investigations and prosecutions in 
           connection with the same, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 3, 2022

   Ms. Warren (for herself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Sanders, and Mr. Booker) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a study 
  to assess the unintended impacts on the health and safety of people 
 engaged in transactional sex, in connection with the enactment of the 
 Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 
  and the loss of interactive computer services that host information 
related to sexual exchange, to direct the Attorney General to submit a 
    report on human trafficking investigations and prosecutions in 
           connection with the same, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``SESTA/FOSTA Examination of Secondary 
Effects for Sex Workers Study Act'' or the ``SAFE SEX Workers Study 
Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) People who engage in consensual, transactional sex 
        utilize online platforms to protect their health, safety, and 
        independence. This use includes building community connections, 
        distribution of harm reduction information and techniques, 
        identification and screening of potential clients, sale of 
        media and remote services and negotiating the terms of 
        consensual, transactional sex services, including condom use 
        and other harm reduction strategies.
            (2) Widespread discrimination against populations, 
        including LGBTQIA+ individuals, particularly transgender women 
        of color, prevents many from accessing formal employment 
        resources, traditional financial services, and educational 
        opportunities.
            (3) In the 2015 United States Transgender Survey conducted 
        by the National Center for Transgender Equality, 19 percent of 
        respondents reported having exchanged sex for resources, such 
        as for money, food, or a place to sleep. Transgender women of 
        color, including Black (42 percent), American Indian (28 
        percent), multiracial (27 percent), Latina (23 percent), and 
        Asian (22 percent) respondents were more likely to have 
        participated in sex work than the overall sample.
            (4) In the 2015 United States Transgender Survey, 
        respondents who experienced homelessness in the past year (17 
        percent) were more than 3 times as likely to have participated 
        in sex work during that year compared to the overall sample.
            (5) On a broader scale, internet platforms foster 
        connections between people and play an integral part in 
        American society. Access to digital platforms has been 
        essential for activists, distribution of harm reduction 
        information and reproductive and sexual health information, and 
        fostering connections between people who face geographic 
        barriers. Meaningful regulation of internet platforms must take 
        into account the role they play in the health, safety, and 
        privacy of all people's lives.
            (6) While policymakers, representatives of internet 
        platforms, and some advocates have discussed ways to mitigate 
        the use of internet platforms to decrease exploitation, people 
        who consensually trade sex are rarely involved in the drafting 
        of legislation or policies, or in assessing their impact, 
        despite being amongst the populations who are impacted by 
        legislation and policies related to the regulation of these 
        internet platforms.
            (7) On February 27, 2018, the House of Representatives 
        passed the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex 
        Trafficking Act of 2017 (commonly known as ``SESTA/FOSTA''). 
        While SESTA/FOSTA holds websites liable for user-generated 
        content that facilitates sex trafficking, it also impacts 
        online platforms where users discuss consensual sex work and 
        related topics.
            (8) Contemporaneously with the passage of SESTA/FOSTA in 
        the Senate on March 21, 2018, websites preemptively shut down, 
        some directly citing the law's passage as the rationale for 
        closure.
            (9) One week before President Donald Trump signed SESTA/
        FOSTA into law, the Department of Justice seized Backpage.com 
        and arrested Backpage employees, citing promotion of 
        prostitution and money laundering charges, similar to the 
        Department of Homeland Security's seizure of Rentboy.com only a 
        few years prior.
            (10) While these websites and individual accounts have been 
        closing down, there has been no national investigation 
        rigorously examining the impact of losing access to these 
        platforms on the health and safety of people in consensual, 
        transactional sex work. Regional and anecdotal information from 
        health and safety service providers and sex workers has pointed 
        to significant impacts on the health and safety of people who 
        engage in consensual, transactional sex.
            (11) Community organizations have reported increased 
        homelessness of sex workers, including of sex workers who are 
        caretakers for their families and have lost the economic 
        stability provided by access to online platforms.
            (12) Sex workers have reported a reduced ability to screen 
        potential clients for safety, and negotiate for boundaries such 
        as condom use, resulting in reports of physical and sexual 
        violence.
            (13) Many sex workers have turned to street-based work, 
        which has historically involved higher rates of violence than 
        other forms of transactional sex. Street-based sex workers have 
        frequently noted practices which harm their health and safety, 
        such as the confiscation of condoms by police, or use of 
        condoms as evidence of arrest for prostitution.
            (14) With this new level of precarity, isolation, and 
        vulnerability, there is substantial anecdotal evidence that 
        members of the sex work community are more frequently being 
        contacted by third parties seeking to engage in management 
        activities. This includes both sex workers who had always 
        worked independently, as well as those who have previously 
        experienced violence and exploitation by a third party.
            (15) The Federal Government has long discussed the 
        importance of assessing collateral consequences when looking at 
        other industries. Comprehensive studies are essential to 
        evaluate the impact on human trafficking investigations and 
        prosecutions, and the health and safety of those involved in 
        consensual, transactional sex, who are increasingly losing 
        access to digital platforms, which have been used for harm 
        reduction information and techniques, and to screen clients. 
        Informed government policies begin with seeking out relevant 
        information to better guide our actions moving forward.

SEC. 3. STUDY ON UNINTENDED IMPACTS ON HEALTH AND SAFETY OF PEOPLE 
              ENGAGED IN TRANSACTIONAL SEX AS A RESULT OF THE LOSS OF 
              CERTAIN ONLINE RESOURCES.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to 
in this section as the ``Secretary''), in consultation, as appropriate, 
with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
the Director of the National Institutes of Health, and the Assistant 
Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, shall study the impacts 
on the health and safety of people engaged in transactional sex 
resulting from the loss of access to interactive computer services (as 
defined in section 230(f) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
230(f))) in connection with the closure of websites (including 
Backpage.com) that host information related to consensual sexual 
exchange, on or after February 27, 2018, in anticipation of, or in 
response to, the enactment of the Allow States and Victims to Fight 
Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-164).
    (b) Interviews and Surveys.--The study under subsection (a) shall 
include interviews with, and surveys conducted by, nonprofit and 
community-based organizations that provide direct services to people 
engaged in transactional sex.
    (c) Topics.--The study under subsection (a) shall include 
assessment of the following impacts on people engaged in transactional 
sex:
            (1) Changes in access to technology-related harm reduction 
        services, including social media services.
            (2) Changes in ability to negotiate terms with potential 
        clients.
            (3) Changes in experiences of violence from clients.
            (4) Changes in interactions with law enforcement officials, 
        including changes in police surveillance, stops, and arrests.
            (5) Changes in contact from third parties.
            (6) Changes in relationship to and reliance on third 
        parties.
            (7) Changes in experiences of exploitation and trafficking.
            (8) Impacts on access to economic resources.
            (9) Impacts on access to banking and financial technology 
        tools.
            (10) Impacts on homelessness and housing stability.
            (11) Impacts on mental health.
            (12) Impacts on vulnerability to the transmission of HIV 
        and other sexually transmitted infections.
            (13) Changes in participation in other criminalized 
        behavior.
            (14) Disparities in the effects described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (13) on key populations typically underserved by 
        service providers, including LGBTQIA+ individuals, people 
        living in rural areas, racial and ethnic minorities, Tribal 
        communities, people experiencing exploitation and trafficking, 
        and undocumented and documented foreign nationals.
            (15) Any other impacts on people engaged in transactional 
        sex, as determined appropriate by the Secretary.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the 
results of the study under subsection (a) and make such report 
available to the public.

SEC. 4. REPORT ON IMPACTS ON HUMAN TRAFFICKING AS A RESULT OF THE LOSS 
              OF CERTAIN ONLINE RESOURCES.

    (a) Report.--The Attorney General shall report on the impacts on 
human trafficking investigations and prosecutions resulting from the 
loss of access to interactive computer services (as defined in section 
230(f) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 230(f))) in 
connection with the closure of websites (including Backpage.com) that 
host information related to consensual sexual exchange, on or after 
February 27, 2018, in anticipation of, or in response to, the enactment 
of the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 
2017 (Public Law 115-164).
    (b) Interviews and Surveys.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
include interviews with nonprofit and community-based organizations 
that provide direct services to survivors of human trafficking or 
people engaged in transactional sex.
    (c) Topics.--The report under subsection (a) shall include an 
assessment of the following impacts of the closure of Backpage.com and 
other seized websites, the preemptive closure of other websites 
associated with commercial and non-commercial sex, the changes to civil 
liability for websites, and moderation or other operational changes in 
relation to the changes in liability pursuant to the Allow States and 
Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-
164) (or any amendments made by such Act):
            (1) Impact on access to online communication technologies, 
        including social media services.
            (2) Impact on investigations into trafficking in persons.
            (3) Impact on prosecution of individuals under section 
        1591(a) of title 18, United States Code.
            (4) Impact on the ability of law enforcement agencies to 
        find and prosecute individuals who violate section 1591(a) of 
        title 18, United States Code.
            (5) Impact of changes made by the Allow States and Victims 
        to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 (Public Law) 
        (commonly known as ``SESTA/FOSTA'') to section 230 of the 
        Communications Decency Act on State law enforcement agencies 
        and victims of human trafficking seeking civil redress against 
        websites engaged in trafficking of children in violation of 
        section 1591(a) of title 18, United States Code.
            (6) Impact on other policies of the Department of Justice 
        with respect to the prosecution of websites under section 1591 
        or 2421A of title 18, United States Code.
            (7) Disparities in the impacts described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6) on key populations typically underserved by service 
        providers, specifically LGBTQIA+ individuals, people living in 
        rural areas, racial and ethnic minorities, Tribal communities, 
        people experiencing exploitation and trafficking, and 
        undocumented and documented foreign nationals.
            (8) Any other impacts on people engaged in transactional 
        sex, as determined appropriate by the Attorney General.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress the report 
required under subsection (a) and make such report available to the 
public.
                                 <all>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6928 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6928

To direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a study 
  to assess the unintended impacts on the health and safety of people 
 engaged in transactional sex, in connection with the enactment of the 
 Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 
  and the loss of interactive computer services that host information 
related to sexual exchange, to direct the Attorney General to submit a 
    report on human trafficking investigations and prosecutions in 
           connection with the same, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 3, 2022

   Mr. Khanna (for himself, Ms. Lee of California, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
Norton, Ms. Tlaib, Mr. Stanton, Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Watson Coleman, and Ms. 
Roybal-Allard) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
   the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a study 
  to assess the unintended impacts on the health and safety of people 
 engaged in transactional sex, in connection with the enactment of the 
 Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 
  and the loss of interactive computer services that host information 
related to sexual exchange, to direct the Attorney General to submit a 
    report on human trafficking investigations and prosecutions in 
           connection with the same, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``SESTA/FOSTA Examination of Secondary 
Effects for Sex Workers Study Act'' or the ``SAFE SEX Workers Study 
Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) People who engage in consensual, transactional sex 
        utilize online platforms to protect their health, safety, and 
        independence. This use includes building community connections, 
        distribution of harm reduction information and techniques, 
        identification and screening of potential clients, sale of 
        media and remote services and negotiating the terms of 
        consensual, transactional sex services, including condom use 
        and other harm reduction strategies.
            (2) Widespread discrimination against populations, 
        including LGBTQIA+ individuals, particularly transgender women 
        of color, prevents many from accessing formal employment 
        resources, traditional financial services, and educational 
        opportunities.
            (3) In the 2015 United States Transgender Survey conducted 
        by the National Center for Transgender Equality, 19 percent of 
        respondents reported having exchanged sex for resources, such 
        as for money, food, or a place to sleep. Transgender women of 
        color, including Black (42 percent), American Indian (28 
        percent), multiracial (27 percent), Latina (23 percent), and 
        Asian (22 percent) respondents were more likely to have 
        participated in sex work than the overall sample.
            (4) In the 2015 United States Transgender Survey, 
        respondents who experienced homelessness in the past year (17 
        percent) were more than 3 times as likely to have participated 
        in sex work during that year compared to the overall sample.
            (5) On a broader scale, internet platforms foster 
        connections between people and play an integral part in 
        American society. Access to digital platforms has been 
        essential for activists, distribution of harm reduction 
        information and reproductive and sexual health information, and 
        fostering connections between people who face geographic 
        barriers. Meaningful regulation of internet platforms must take 
        into account the role they play in the health, safety, and 
        privacy of all people's lives.
            (6) While policymakers, representatives of internet 
        platforms, and some advocates have discussed ways to mitigate 
        the use of internet platforms to decrease exploitation, people 
        who consensually trade sex are rarely involved in the drafting 
        of legislation or policies, or in assessing their impact, 
        despite being amongst the populations who are impacted by 
        legislation and policies related to the regulation of these 
        internet platforms.
            (7) On February 27, 2018, the House of Representatives 
        passed the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex 
        Trafficking Act of 2017 (commonly known as ``SESTA/FOSTA''). 
        While SESTA/FOSTA holds websites liable for user-generated 
        content that facilitates sex trafficking, it also impacts 
        online platforms where users discuss consensual sex work and 
        related topics.
            (8) Contemporaneously with the passage of SESTA/FOSTA in 
        the Senate on March 21, 2018, websites preemptively shut down, 
        some directly citing the law's passage as the rationale for 
        closure.
            (9) One week before President Donald Trump signed SESTA/
        FOSTA into law, the Department of Justice seized Backpage.com 
        and arrested Backpage employees, citing promotion of 
        prostitution and money laundering charges, similar to the 
        Department of Homeland Security's seizure of Rentboy.com only a 
        few years prior.
            (10) While these websites and individual accounts have been 
        closing down, there has been no national investigation 
        rigorously examining the impact of losing access to these 
        platforms on the health and safety of people in consensual, 
        transactional sex work. Regional and anecdotal information from 
        health and safety service providers and sex workers has pointed 
        to significant impacts on the health and safety of people who 
        engage in consensual, transactional sex.
            (11) Community organizations have reported increased 
        homelessness of sex workers, including of sex workers who are 
        caretakers for their families and have lost the economic 
        stability provided by access to online platforms.
            (12) Sex workers have reported a reduced ability to screen 
        potential clients for safety, and negotiate for boundaries such 
        as condom use, resulting in reports of physical and sexual 
        violence.
            (13) Many sex workers have turned to street-based work, 
        which has historically involved higher rates of violence than 
        other forms of transactional sex. Street-based sex workers have 
        frequently noted practices which harm their health and safety, 
        such as the confiscation of condoms by police, or use of 
        condoms as evidence of arrest for prostitution.
            (14) With this new level of precarity, isolation, and 
        vulnerability, there is substantial anecdotal evidence that 
        members of the sex work community are more frequently being 
        contacted by third parties seeking to engage in management 
        activities. This includes both sex workers who had always 
        worked independently, as well as those who have previously 
        experienced violence and exploitation by a third party.
            (15) The Federal Government has long discussed the 
        importance of assessing collateral consequences when looking at 
        other industries. Comprehensive studies are essential to 
        evaluate the impact on human trafficking investigations and 
        prosecutions, and the health and safety of those involved in 
        consensual, transactional sex, who are increasingly losing 
        access to digital platforms, which have been used for harm 
        reduction information and techniques, and to screen clients. 
        Informed government policies begin with seeking out relevant 
        information to better guide our actions moving forward.

SEC. 3. STUDY ON UNINTENDED IMPACTS ON HEALTH AND SAFETY OF PEOPLE 
              ENGAGED IN TRANSACTIONAL SEX AS A RESULT OF THE LOSS OF 
              CERTAIN ONLINE RESOURCES.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to 
in this section as the ``Secretary''), in consultation, as appropriate, 
with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
the Director of the National Institutes of Health, and the Assistant 
Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, shall study the impacts 
on the health and safety of people engaged in transactional sex 
resulting from the loss of access to interactive computer services (as 
defined in section 230(f) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
230(f))) in connection with the closure of websites (including 
Backpage.com) that host information related to consensual sexual 
exchange, on or after February 27, 2018, in anticipation of, or in 
response to, the enactment of the Allow States and Victims to Fight 
Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-164).
    (b) Interviews and Surveys.--The study under subsection (a) shall 
include interviews with, and surveys conducted by, nonprofit and 
community-based organizations that provide direct services to people 
engaged in transactional sex.
    (c) Topics.--The study under subsection (a) shall include 
assessment of the following impacts on people engaged in transactional 
sex:
            (1) Changes in access to technology-related harm reduction 
        services, including social media services.
            (2) Changes in ability to negotiate terms with potential 
        clients.
            (3) Changes in experiences of violence from clients.
            (4) Changes in interactions with law enforcement officials, 
        including changes in police surveillance, stops, and arrests.
            (5) Changes in contact from third parties.
            (6) Changes in relationship to and reliance on third 
        parties.
            (7) Changes in experiences of exploitation and trafficking.
            (8) Impacts on access to economic resources.
            (9) Impacts on access to banking and financial technology 
        tools.
            (10) Impacts on homelessness and housing stability.
            (11) Impacts on mental health.
            (12) Impacts on vulnerability to the transmission of HIV 
        and other sexually transmitted infections.
            (13) Changes in participation in other criminalized 
        behavior.
            (14) Disparities in the effects described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (13) on key populations typically underserved by 
        service providers, including LGBTQIA+ individuals, people 
        living in rural areas, racial and ethnic minorities, Tribal 
        communities, people experiencing exploitation and trafficking, 
        and undocumented and documented foreign nationals.
            (15) Any other impacts on people engaged in transactional 
        sex, as determined appropriate by the Secretary.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the 
results of the study under subsection (a) and make such report 
available to the public.

SEC. 4. REPORT ON IMPACTS ON HUMAN TRAFFICKING AS A RESULT OF THE LOSS 
              OF CERTAIN ONLINE RESOURCES.

    (a) Report.--The Attorney General shall report on the impacts on 
human trafficking investigations and prosecutions resulting from the 
loss of access to interactive computer services (as defined in section 
230(f) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 230(f))) in 
connection with the closure of websites (including Backpage.com) that 
host information related to consensual sexual exchange, on or after 
February 27, 2018, in anticipation of, or in response to, the enactment 
of the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 
2017 (Public Law 115-164).
    (b) Interviews and Surveys.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
include interviews with nonprofit and community-based organizations 
that provide direct services to survivors of human trafficking or 
people engaged in transactional sex.
    (c) Topics.--The report under subsection (a) shall include an 
assessment of the following impacts of the closure of Backpage.com and 
other seized websites, the preemptive closure of other websites 
associated with commercial and non-commercial sex, the changes to civil 
liability for websites, and moderation or other operational changes in 
relation to the changes in liability pursuant to the Allow States and 
Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-
164) (or any amendments made by such Act):
            (1) Impact on access to online communication technologies, 
        including social media services.
            (2) Impact on investigations into trafficking in persons.
            (3) Impact on prosecution of individuals under section 
        1591(a) of title 18, United States Code.
            (4) Impact on the ability of law enforcement agencies to 
        find and prosecute individuals who violate section 1591(a) of 
        title 18, United States Code.
            (5) Impact of changes made by the Allow States and Victims 
        to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 (Public Law) 
        (commonly known as ``SESTA/FOSTA'') to section 230 of the 
        Communications Decency Act on State law enforcement agencies 
        and victims of human trafficking seeking civil redress against 
        websites engaged in trafficking of children in violation of 
        section 1591(a) of title 18, United States Code.
            (6) Impact on other policies of the Department of Justice 
        with respect to the prosecution of websites under section 1591 
        or 2421A of title 18, United States Code.
            (7) Disparities in the impacts described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6) on key populations typically underserved by service 
        providers, specifically LGBTQIA+ individuals, people living in 
        rural areas, racial and ethnic minorities, Tribal communities, 
        people experiencing exploitation and trafficking, and 
        undocumented and documented foreign nationals.
            (8) Any other impacts on people engaged in transactional 
        sex, as determined appropriate by the Attorney General.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress the report 
required under subsection (a) and make such report available to the 
public.
                                 <all>
Administration of Joseph R. Biden, Jr., 2022



Remarks on the United States Supreme Court Decision To Overturn Roe v. Wade
June 24, 2022



The President. Today is ait's not hyperbole to suggest a very solemn moment. Today the Supreme Court of the United States expressly took away a constitutional right from the American people that it had already recognized.

They didn't limit it. They simply took it away. That's never been done to a right so important to so many Americans. But they did it. It's a sad day for the Court and for the country.

Fifty years ago, Roe v. Wade was decided and has been the law of the land since then. This landmark case protected a woman's right to choose, her right to make intensely personal decisions with her doctor, free from thefrom interference of politics.

It reaffirmed basic principles of equality: that women have the power to control their own destiny. And it reinforced the fundamental right of privacythe right of each of us to choose how to live our lives. Now, with Roe gone, let's be very clear: The health and life of women in this Nation are now at risk.

As chairman and ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, as Vice President and now as President of the United States, I've studied this case carefully. I've overseen more Supreme Court confirmations than anyone today, where this case was always discussed.

I believe Roe v. Wade was the correct decision as a matter of constitutional law, an application of the fundamental right to privacy and liberty in matters of family and personal autonomy.

It was a decision on a complex matter that drew a careful balance between a woman's right to choose earlier in her pregnancy and the State's ability to regulate later in her pregnancy. A decision with broad national consensus that most Americans of faiths and backgrounds found acceptable and that had been the law of the land for most of the lifetime of Americans today.

And it was a constitutional principle upheld by Justices appointed by Democrat and Republican Presidents alike. Roe v. Wade was a 7-to-2 decision written by a Justice appointed by a Republican President, Richard Nixon. In the five decades that followed Roe v. Wade, Justices appointed by Republican Presidentsfrom Eisenhower, Nixon, and Reagan, George W. Bush [George H.W. Bush; White House correction.]were among the Justices who voted to uphold the principles set forth in Roe v. Wade.

It was three Justices named by one PresidentDonald Trumpwho were the core of today's decision to upend the scales of justice and eliminate a fundamental right for women in this country. Make no mistake: This decision is the culmination of a deliberate effort over decades to upset the balance of our law. It's a realization of an extreme ideology and a tragic error by the Supreme Court, in my view.

The Court has done what it has never done before: expressly take away a constitutional right that is so fundamental to so many Americans that had already been recognized. The Court's decision to do so will have real and immediate consequences. State laws banning abortion are automatically taking effect today, jeopardizing the health of millions of women, some without exceptions.

So extreme that women could be punished for protecting their health. So extreme that women and girls who are forced to bear their rapist's childof the child of consequence. It's ait just stuns me. So extreme that doctors will be criminalized for fulfilling their duty to care.

Imagine havinga young woman having tocarry the child of incestas a consequence of incest. No option.

Too often the case that poor women are going to be hit the hardest. It's cruel.

In fact, the Court laid out State laws criminalizing abortion that go back to the 1800s [laughter]as a rationale, the Court literally taking America back 150 years.

This a sad day for the country, in my view, but it doesn't mean the fight's over.

Let me be very clear and unambiguous: The only way we can secure a woman's right to choose and the balance that existed is for Congress to restore the protections of Roe v. Wade as Federal law.

No executive action from the President can do that. And if Congress, as it appears, lacks the votethe votes to do that now, voters need to make their voices heard. This fall, we must elect more Senators and Representatives who will codify a woman's right to choose into Federal law once again, elect more State leaders to protect this right at the local level.

We need to restore the protections of Roe as law of the land. We need to elect officials who will do that. This fall, Roe is on the ballot. Personal freedoms are on the ballot. The right to privacy, liberty, equality, they're all on the ballot.

Until then, I will do all in my power to protect a woman's right in States where they will face the consequences of today's decision. While the Court's decision casts a dark shadow over a large swath of the land, many States in this country still recognize a woman's right to choose.

So if a woman lives in a State that restricts abortion, the Supreme Court's decision does not prevent her from traveling from her home State to the State that allows it. It does not prevent a doctor in that Statein that Statefrom treating her.

As the Attorney General has made clear, women must remain free to travel safely to another State to seek the care they need. And my administration will defend that bedrock right.

If any State or local official, high or low, tries to interfere with a woman's exercising her basic right to travel, I will do everything in my power to fight that deeply un-American attack.

My administration will also protect a woman's access to medications that are approved by the Food and Drug Administrationthe FDAlike contraception, which is essential for preventative health care; mifepristone, which the FDA approved 20 years ago to safely end early pregnancies and is commonly used to treat miscarriages.

Some States are saying that they'll try to ban or severely restrict access to these medications.

But extremist Governors and State legislators who are looking to block the mail or search a person's medicine cabinet or control a woman's actions by tracking data on her apps she uses are wrong and extreme and out of touch with the majority of Americans.

The American Medical Association and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists wrote to me and Vice President Harris stressing that these laws are not based on are not based on evidence and asking us to act to protect access to care. They say by limiting access to these medicines, maternal mortality will climb in America. That's what they say.

Today I'm directing the Department of Health and Human Services to take steps to ensure these critical medications are available to the fullest extent possible and that politicians cannot

interfere in the decisions that should be made between a woman and her doctor. And my administration will remain vigilant as the implications of this decision play out.

I've warned about how this decision risks the broader right to privacy for everyone. That's because Roe recognized the fundamental right to privacy that has served as the basis for so many more rights that we have come to takewe've come to take for granted that are ingrained in the fabric of this country: the right to make the best decisions for your health; the right to use birth controla married couplein the privacy of their bedroom, for God's sake; the right to marry the person you love.

Now, Justice Thomas said as much today. He explicitly called to reconsider the right of marriage equality, the right of couples to make their choices on contraception. This is an extreme and dangerous path the Court is now taking us on.

Let me close with two points. First, I call on everyone, no matter how deeply they care about this decision, to keep all protests peaceful. Peaceful, peaceful, peaceful. No intimidation.

Violence is never acceptable. Threats and intimidation are not speech. We must stand against violence in any form regardless of your rationale.

Second, I know so many of us are frustrated and disillusioned that the Court has taken something away that's so fundamental. I know so many women are now going to face incredibly difficult situations. I hear you. I support you. I stand with you.

The consequences and the consensus of the American peoplecore principles of equality, liberty, dignity, and the stability of the rule of lawdemand that Roe should not have been overturned.

With this decision, the conservative majority of the Supreme Court shows how extreme it is, how far removed they are from the majority of this country. They have made the United States an outlier among developed nations in the world. But this decision must not be the final word.

My administration will use all of its appropriate lawful powers. But Congress must act. And with your vote, you can act. You can have the final word. This is not over.

Thank you very much. I'll have more to say on this in weeks to come. Thank you.

Q. Mr. President, do you still have confidence in this Court?

[At this point, several reporters began asking questions at once.]

Q. Do you still have confidence in



NOTE: The President spoke at 12:37 p.m. in the Cross Hall at the White House. In his remarks, he referred to Supreme Court Associate Justices Neil M. Gorsuch, Brett M. Kavanaugh, and Amy Coney Barrett.



Categories: Addresses and Remarks : U.S. Supreme Court decision to overturn Roe v. Wade. Locations: Washington, DC.

Names: Barrett, Amy Coney; Garland, Merrick B.; Gorsuch, Neal M.; Harris, Kamala D.; Kavanaugh, Brett M.; Thomas, Clarence; Trump, Donald J.

Subjects: Civil rights : Privacy; Elections : 2022 congressional elections; Health and Human Services, Department of : Food and Drug Administration; Health and medical care : Abortion; Health and medical care : Contraception and family planning; Health and medical care : Women's health issues; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: Associate Justice; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: U.S.

Supreme Court opinion overturning 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade; Justice, Department of : Attorney General; White House Office : Vice President.

DCPD Number: DCPD202200557.
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 62 (Thursday, April 7, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2069-S2071]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



             Unanimous Consent Request--Executive Calendar

  Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, I am here today to speak in support of the 
nomination and confirmation of Christopher Lowman to be the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Sustainment. We are in a fight for the free 
world and that requires maintaining a robust military presence of our 
allies, including and especially NATO countries.
  Any U.S. mission also needs a strong logistics chain. That means 
being able to move troops, medical supplies, fuel, tents, anything else 
throughout the world at any given time. And this is no longer an 
abstraction. We have seen what happens when it isn't in place. We are 
seeing it in real time with Russia's equipment and training problems in 
Ukraine.
  And that is why we have an Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Sustainment to lead on logistics. As we are watching the Ukrainians 
bravely push back this unprovoked Russian war, part of the reason that 
they are having success is that the Russian logistics chain is 
absolutely broken. We, in the United States, and our Armed Forces take 
logistics extraordinarily seriously. But we don't have the person in 
charge of that confirmed to lead the Department on logistics.
  This position is left unfilled because Josh Hawley is blocking Mr. 
Lowman's nomination. Senator Hawley apparently disagrees with the Biden 
administration policy on Afghanistan, and so he is punishing our 
servicemembers and our NATO allies while a war in Europe is raging. It 
is worth repeating. Senator Hawley is mad about what happened 6 months 
ago in a different part of the world, and in response, he is harming 
the Department of Defense and our national security.
  Mr. HAWLEY. Will the Senator yield?
  Mr. SCHATZ. I will not yield.
  Mr. Lowman is well-qualified for this job, and no one is disputing 
that. He is a Marine Corps veteran who spent nearly four decades 
working for the Army. He has the exact expertise necessary to help 
support our logistics chain and help to make sure that our military 
remains the best fighting force on the planet. It is time for Senator 
Hawley to release this hold and move the nomination forward.
  This is preposterous. You can do a hold. Members do a hold. The 
Presiding Officer has done a hold. I have done a hold. I voted no on 
nominees. I retaliated against Democratic and Republican 
administrations when I disagreed with policy. But a blanket hold on the 
Department of Defense and holding the person in charge of our logistics 
chain is absolutely inexcusable.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate consider the 
following nomination, Calendar No. 777, Christopher Joseph Lowman, of 
Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, and that the Senate 
vote on the nomination without intervening action or debate; that the 
motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table, and 
statements related to the nomination be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?

[[Page S2070]]

  The Senator from Missouri is recognized.
  Mr. HAWLEY. Reserving the right to object, now that I have the floor, 
will the Senator from Hawaii answer a question?
  Do you agree with this administration's policy to denying MiGs to the 
Ukrainians?
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator may not interrogate the other 
Senator.
  Mr. HAWLEY. Well, the Senator doesn't want to answer any questions. I 
see. He denied my request to ask a question a moment ago.
  Mr. SCHATZ. Is there an objection? Does he object or not?
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Regular order has been called.
  Is there objection?
  Mr. HAWLEY. I object.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard. The Senator from Missouri 
is recognized.
  Mr. HAWLEY. Mr. President, thank you for finally giving me an option 
to speak. It is interesting, the Senator will come to the floor but 
doesn't want to engage in a colloquy or answer questions.
  Let's talk a little bit about the policy--disastrous policy--that he 
is supporting. This is the White House's latest talking points that 
their failure in Ukraine is now due to some logistics problem and the 
Department of Defense--they, of course, can't be responsible for what 
they are doing, just like they are not responsible for anything. They 
are not responsible for what happened in Afghanistan--their policy. 
They are not responsible for what has happened in Ukraine--their 
policy.
  Let's talk about their policy in Ukraine.
  Mr. SCHATZ. Will the Senator yield to a question?
  Mr. HAWLEY. So what has President Zelenskyy been asking for for 
weeks, indeed, months on end? He said: ``Send us planes.''
  What has this administration done? No. Actually, first they said yes, 
then they said maybe, then they said no.
  Today, the Secretary of Defense testified before the Armed Services 
Committee, under oath, that even though this Congress has appropriated 
$3 billion in military lethal aid to the people of Ukraine, the Defense 
Department has so far given them less than one-third of it. Why, 
because of logistics? No. He was asked that. No, because of policy. His 
comment was: We are giving them what we think they need.
  I would just point out that that is not what the Ukrainians think. If 
you listen to President Zelenskyy, if you listen to the Ukrainian 
parliamentarians who have been here, if you talked to them, what they 
will say is they need more military aid; they need more help.
  This administration won't give it to them, not because of logistics 
but because of policy. We don't have a logistics problem; we have a Joe 
Biden problem, and we have had that problem in Ukraine from day one.
  This administration's policy was to deter a Russian invasion of 
Ukraine. It failed. Why did it fail? It is not hard to see. President 
Biden came to office, what did he do?
  Mr. SCHATZ. Will the Senator yield?
  Mr. HAWLEY. When Ukraine asked for military assistance, he denied it.
  Can we have order?
  Mr. SCHATZ. I am asking, will the Senator yield.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Missouri has the floor.
  Mr. HAWLEY. When Joe Biden came to office, the people of Ukraine 
asked for military assistance a year ago--a year ago. Did he give it to 
them? No. He denied them military stance. He denied them lethal aid. 
What did he do, though, for Vladimir Putin? When he came to office, he 
green-lighted Vladimir Putin's pipeline. He turned their pipelines on. 
He turned our pipelines off. What did he do with American energy 
production? He throttled it down. He turned it off.
  His first actions in office were to, among other things, cancel the 
Keystone Pipeline, halt the leasing program in ANWR, issue a halt to 
new oil and gas leases and drilling permits on Federal lands, impose 
tougher regulations on oil and gas and methane emissions, and a host of 
new regulations on other energy production.
  And that had the desired effect. Russian energy production--up. 
Russian revenues--up. What has happened since then, since the invasion 
of Ukraine? It has been one gaffe after another. He won't send them 
planes.
  Today, the Secretary of Defense also confirmed that this 
administration has, in fact, not been sharing intelligence with the 
Ukrainians. In fact, today the Secretary of Defense had to admit that 
the administration was going to be forced to change policy--his words--
change policy in Ukraine because of the fact we had not been sharing 
all the intelligence we might have with Ukrainian soldiers and the 
Ukrainian military despite their request for that. Whose decision was 
that? Joe Biden's. It is his policy.
  The President hasn't been entirely silent. He did have this to say:

       For God's sake, this man cannot remain in power.

  Now Joe Biden doesn't appear to know whether we are fighting or 
struggling to help the Ukrainians defend themselves or whether we are 
launching a war of regime change in Russia, itself.
  You know, the bottom line is this: On one issue after another, when 
it comes to Ukraine, this President has been wrong. On every aspect of 
policy that has mattered, he has been wrong. Is it any wonder the 
Ukrainians are saying: Change policies, share your intelligence, send 
us the aid that we have requested.
  I say again, we don't have a logistics problem. The White House 
shouldn't point fingers and shift the blame. We have a Joe Biden 
problem. That is the nub of the issue here.

  There was Joe Biden's comment sounding like we are going to send 
ground troops:

       You're going to see when you go there--

  He said to servicemembers.

       And you . . . some of you have been there. You're going to 
     see--you're going to see women, young people standing . . . 
     in front of a damn tank, just saying, ``I'm not leaving. I'm 
     holding my ground.''

  The President--it is one gaffe after another. It is one switch in 
policy after another. It is disaster from beginning to end. And let's 
not forget where these foreign policy disasters really kicked off in a 
big way. Yeah, I was in Afghanistan. Am I concerned about Afghanistan? 
You are darn right I am. Thirteen servicemembers were killed at Abbey 
Gate, including one from my home State. I will never forget talking to 
his father as soon as we learned of the attack--before, in fact, the 
official notice of his son's death had been released. His father asked 
me to do everything in my power to hold this administration 
accountable, and that is exactly what I am going to do.
  Has anyone been held accountable yet for Afghanistan? Has somebody 
been fired? Has somebody been relieved of command? No. Has somebody 
been shown the door? No. Has there been a change in policy at the 
Department of Defense? No.
  We just stumble from one crisis to another. Why? Because we have a 
Joe Biden problem. This administration is doing exactly what their 
Commander in Chief wants them to do and it is wrong, again and again 
and again and again.
  Until we see some change in policy from this administration, until 
this Senate gets serious about its oversight responsibilities at the 
Department of Defense, I am going to ask that for senior defense 
leaders, we at least observe regular order. I can't block a nomination. 
I can't halt it, but I can ask that regular order be followed. That is 
exactly what I am going to ask with regard to this nomination and other 
senior leaders until there is accountability, until we have a change in 
policy, and until this administration admits that on issue after issue, 
in virtually every aspect of its foreign policy, it is just dead wrong.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Hawaii.
  Mr. SCHATZ. What Senator Hawley wants is an excuse to go through his 
litany of criticisms of the Biden administration. And the truth is that 
every Senator has that right without blocking the logistics guy from 
the Department of Defense.
  He could have brought his floor charts out here and given a withering 
speech about all of the things that he thought went wrong. But he is 
doing a very specific thing: He is damaging the Department of Defense. 
We have senior

[[Page S2071]]

DOD leaders, we have the Armed Services Committee coming to us and 
saying: I don't know what to tell him. I don't know how to satisfy him, 
but he is blocking the staffing of the senior leadership at the 
Department of Defense.
  This comes from a guy who raised his fist in solidarity with the 
insurrectionists. This comes from a guy who, before the Russian 
invasion, suggested that maybe it would be wise for Zelenskyy to make a 
few concessions about Ukraine and their willingness to join NATO. This 
comes from a guy who, just about a month ago, voted against Ukraine 
aid. He is saying it is going too slow. He voted no. He voted no on 
Ukraine aid, and now, he has the gall to say it is going too slow.
  And this final insult is that until--what--Secretary Austin resigns? 
That is not a serious request. People used to come to me during the 
Trump administration all the time: Do you think Trump should resign? Do 
you think Tillerson should resign? That is stupid. Of course, I think 
all the people I disagree with should quit their jobs and be replaced 
with people I love; of course, I think they should all resign. That is 
not how this world works. That is not a reasonable request from a U.S. 
Senator: Until the Secretary of Defense quits his job, I am going to 
block all his nominees. That is preposterous--and coming from a person 
who exonerated Donald Trump for extorting Zelenskyy for withholding 
lethal aid.
  They withheld lethal aid until--unless--Zelenskyy would release false 
smears against Joe Biden's son, and then he voted to exonerate 
President Trump for this. So spare me the new solidarity with the 
Ukrainians and with the free world, because this man's record is 
exactly the opposite.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Pennsylvania.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 31 (Wednesday, February 16, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S739-S747]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



             Unanimous Consent Request--Executive Calendar

  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I rise today to speak about the critical 
role played by U.S. attorneys and U.S. marshals in keeping America 
safe.
  Law enforcement is a team effort, and we need officials at the 
Federal, State, and local levels working together to stop crime in this 
country and to keep people safe in their homes and in their 
neighborhoods.
  It was only 2 months ago when I came to the floor of this Senate to 
request unanimous consent for the Senate to take up and confirm five 
U.S. attorney nominations. Despite the outstanding credentials of all 
of these nominees, one Senator, the junior Senator from Arkansas, 
refused to allow the Senate to confirm five nominees for U.S. attorney 
positions by a voice vote--a tradition in the Senate. That Senator's 
objections had nothing to do with the nominees. He said so. They had 
nothing to do with their records and had nothing to do with their 
qualifications.
  Well, after he was confronted on the floor of the Senate, he lifted 
his objections. We were able to get those U.S. attorneys confirmed and 
put them to work, and there is work to be done in every State in the 
Union to make this a safer nation.
  We believe in law enforcement--we believe in it at every level--and 
when there is delay in putting professionals in place, that delay can 
cost lives. If you stand up and say ``I don't want to defund the 
police'' but then refuse to fill vacancies when it comes to law 
enforcement, that is inconsistent.
  Sadly, we find ourselves in the same position today, 2 months later, 
with the same Senator from Arkansas. He is again objecting to the swift 
confirmation of U.S. attorney and U.S. marshal nominations. In short, 
this same Senator is making it increasingly difficult for us to 
prosecute violent criminals, track down fugitives, and protect 
Americans from gang violence, cybercrime, terrorism, and fraud.
  It is worth taking a moment to consider what U.S. attorneys and U.S. 
marshals do. The positions that they hold are nearly as old as the 
Nation itself. Both U.S. marshal and U.S. attorney positions were 
created by the Judiciary Act of 1789, passed by the First Congress, and 
signed into law by President George Washington.
  The specific responsibilities have changed over time, but the core 
function is the same. This is the Federal answer to enforcing the law, 
prosecuting crimes, and protecting our communities. U.S. attorneys are 
charged with prosecuting all Federal criminal offenses. U.S. marshals 
have the responsibility of risking their lives to protect Federal 
judges and courthouses, tracking down fugitives, and assisting in 
locating and recovering missing children, just to mention a few. In 
short, U.S. attorneys and U.S. marshals play a critical role in 
enforcing the law, promoting public safety, and protecting our 
communities.
  So it is sad that this same junior Senator from Arkansas is blocking 
the confirmations of six U.S. attorneys and two U.S. marshals today. 
Doing so threatens public safety across America and puts millions of 
Americans at risk, including the most vulnerable.
  Despite all of the tough talk we hear from many of these Senators on 
the other side of the aisle about their dedication to law and order and 
keeping America safe, it is a Republican Senator who refuses to take up 
and confirm these nominations in an expeditious way.
  Before I ask for consent for the Senate to confirm the nominees, I 
would like to yield to the majority leader.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I thank the majority whip.
  Thank you for your good work as chair of the Judiciary and for your 
talk on this issue.
  I thank my colleague from Minnesota, who has been passionate about 
getting this done as well.
  I rise today to join with my Democratic colleagues in support of 
these U.S. attorneys and marshals who have singlehandedly been delayed 
for weeks by one Senator, the junior Senator from Arkansas.
  For decades--decades--Democrats and Republicans have regularly 
cooperated to swiftly confirm the many, many individuals selected by 
each President to serve in their administration. Regardless of the 
party in the White House, both sides have long agreed that a President 
deserves to have his or her administration in place

[[Page S740]]

quickly. That doesn't mean we don't disagree, but it does mean that 
when nominees are held up, opposed, or blocked, it is for a legitimate 
purpose, not for leverage and partisan games to score political points 
at the expense of public safety. Most of us still believe in that 
principle but, sadly, not all of us.
  On the other side of the aisle, a small group of obstructionist 
Republicans has spent the last year hijacking the rules of the Senate 
to place an unprecedented number of holds on hundreds--hundreds--of 
Presidential appointees.
  Let me repeat. This isn't about a few nominees here and there; we are 
talking about hundreds of nominees.
  In this case, my colleague from Arkansas is holding back six U.S. 
attorneys and two U.S. marshals--vital roles in preserving public 
safety. The level of partisan obstruction is a new low for the Senate.
  When President Trump was in office, every single U.S. attorney and 
U.S. marshal--every single one--was confirmed by this Chamber with 
unanimous consent. Yes, we had deep, deep problems with the Trump 
Department of Justice, but never did we demand a rollcall vote just to 
confirm nominees like these. In fact, the last time the Senate had to 
hold a rollcall vote--listen to this--the last time the Senate had to 
hold a rollcall vote to confirm a U.S. attorney was a half a century 
ago--nearly half a century ago--in 1975, and it is not hard to see why. 
U.S. attorneys and marshals aren't political positions. Their job is 
literally to keep Americans safe. They are Federal prosecutors, and 
they are Federal law enforcement.
  If my Republican colleagues on the other side truly care about public 
safety, why are they obstructing the appointments of individuals whose 
jobs would precisely be to maintain public safety in the first place? 
It is ``Alice in Wonderland'' logic.
  Now, this isn't just about breaking precedent. Right now, communities 
across the country still don't have their U.S. attorneys on the job 
because of obstruction here in the Senate. Districts in Georgia, Ohio, 
Nevada, Minnesota, Michigan, and Illinois are all still waiting for 
U.S. attorneys.
  Sadly, the families who live in these communities shouldn't have to 
pay the price for what a very small number of Republicans are doing 
here, but, sadly, that is what is happening. It is a textbook example 
of why Americans are frustrated with the Senate and are frustrated with 
their government.
  On the other hand, I want to thank my Democratic colleagues for 
advocating on behalf of the U.S. attorneys and marshals. I thank my 
friend Senator Durbin, chairman of the Judiciary, for speaking 
passionately. I thank Senator Klobuchar for coming to the floor to 
speak. I thank Senators Rosen and Cortez Masto and Duckworth and Brown, 
who have also spoken.
  One way or another, these nominees will be confirmed by the Senate. 
Republican obstructionists can try to delay, but they cannot stop these 
individuals from ultimately going through.
  If the holds on these nominees are not dropped, I will be filing 
cloture on them, and we will schedule votes to advance them until the 
job is finished. If that means more late nights, then more late nights 
are coming. If it means vote series with six or seven or eight votes in 
a row, then that is what we will do.
  Most of us don't want to go down that road, and we don't have to. The 
overwhelming majority of Democrats and Republicans want to preserve the 
decades of precedent and comity that has enabled us to work together on 
nominees.
  So let me say for one last time, delaying the appointment of U.S. 
attorneys and U.S. marshals over cheap partisan games ultimately makes 
Americans less safe and weakens law enforcement.
  I urge my Republican colleague to drop his obstruction or else he can 
explain to his colleagues why we have to schedule a dizzyingly large 
number of rollcall votes just to push these nominees through.
  I thank my colleagues for their work and yield to Senator Durbin.
  Mr. DURBIN. I thank the majority leader. I would like to just add: 
There must be those following the debate who are wondering, ``What is 
the basis for the junior Senator from Arkansas opposing these eight 
nominees? There must be something wrong with them. There must be 
something in their background that doesn't add up.''
  Consider the variety of individuals who are being held up by the 
junior Senator from Arkansas: Ryan Buchanan, of Georgia, to be U.S. 
attorney for the Northern District; Jason Frierson, of Nevada, to be 
U.S. attorney for the District of Nevada; Andrew Luger, of Minnesota, 
to be U.S. attorney for the District of Minnesota--and the Senator from 
Minnesota will speak to that in just a moment--Mark Totten, of 
Michigan, to be U.S. attorney for the Western District of Michigan; 
Marisa Darden, of Ohio, to be U.S. attorney for the Northern District 
of Ohio; Delia Smith, of the Virgin Islands, to be U.S. attorney for 
the District of the Virgin Islands; Eddie Frizell, again of Minnesota, 
to be U.S. marshal for the District of Minnesota; and LaDon Reynolds, 
of Illinois, to be U.S. marshal for the Northern District of Illinois.
  We looked especially at our own nominees very closely to make sure 
that they were qualified to take on these Federal positions. Several of 
my colleagues are going to come to the floor today to speak about the 
nominees being held up by one Senator, so rather than delving into the 
records of all of the eight nominees, let me just focus on the one in 
Illinois--Chief LaDon Reynolds, nominated to serve as U.S. marshal for 
the Northern District.
  Chief Reynolds has served the people of Illinois for nearly 30 years. 
He joined the Oak Park Police Department in 1994, rising steadily 
through the ranks until his appointment in 2019 as chief.
  In addition to his service at the Oak Park Police Department, Chief 
Reynolds serves on the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards 
Board, the Illinois Commission on Discrimination and Hate Crimes, and 
the Executive Board of the Illinois Association of Chiefs of Police. In 
short, Chief Reynolds is eminently qualified to serve as U.S. marshal 
for the Northern District of Illinois. There is simply no valid basis 
to delay his confirmation.
  And I have yet to hear the Senator from Arkansas come forward with a 
bill of particulars of why he has decided to single out the people whom 
I just mentioned, to deny them an opportunity to make communities safer 
across America. At a time of high crime and the need for a coordinated 
effort at every single level, there is absolutely no valid explanation 
of why these individuals are being withheld from their responsibilities 
in these communities.
  We need to have law enforcement taken seriously and respected. 
Holding up nominations for no particular reason other than a political 
issue that may bother the Senator is certainly no reason for us to 
jeopardize the safety of innocent people living in these communities 
who depend on these Federal law enforcement officials to do their job.
  At this point, I would like to make a unanimous consent request.
  Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to 
the consideration of the following nominations en bloc: Calendar No. 
660, 661, 662, 663, 739, 740, 741, and 742; that the Senate vote on the 
nominations en bloc without intervening action or debate; that the 
motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with 
no intervening action or debate; that any statement related to the 
nominations be printed in the Record and that the President be 
immediately notified of the Senate's action.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  The Senator from Arkansas.
  Mr. COTTON. Madam President, reserving the right to object, which I 
most certainly will do, I will just address what the Senator from 
Illinois said.
  He said he has heard no explanation for why I am objecting to every 
Department of Justice nominee moving forward on a fast-track basis. 
That is false. He has heard my explanation repeatedly. He may not like 
it, but he has heard it.
  I am taking this stance on behalf of four brave U.S. marshals who 
defended the Federal courthouse in Portland from leftwing street 
militias associated with the BLM movement and antifa.
  The summer of 2020 was part of riots all across our country, but in 
Portland these riots were particularly dangerous. Marshals were 
targeted with lasers to blind them, with ball bearings,

[[Page S741]]

with fireworks. There were efforts to barricade them inside the 
courthouse and set it on fire to burn them alive. These marshals are 
heroes, and they should be celebrated. Anyone who says they support law 
enforcement should be defending these marshals.
  Not surprisingly, leftwing activists and leftwing organizations, like 
the ACLU, are coming to the defense of the leftwing street militia that 
attacked these marshals, tried to burn down the Portland courthouse, 
suing marshals on frivolous grounds.
  Many of these marshals are being defended by the Department of 
Justice, as is the Department of Justice's longstanding custom and 
practice to either provide representation for its law enforcement 
officers when they are sued in court or, if there is some conflict, to 
reimburse them and pay their legal fees. Four marshals are not being 
defended, though.
  These four marshals are GS-11s, GS-13s. They have been serving our 
country for a lifetime. Many of them are veterans, veterans of foreign 
wars. They face financial bankruptcy and ruin because the Department of 
Justice won't represent them; in many cases, won't even give them an 
answer or explain why the representation was denied.
  When I learned of this, I demanded answers. And the Department of 
Justice had no answers. So if my colleagues think that I am going to 
just roll out the red carpet for Department of Justice nominees to be 
confirmed to politically connected positions, while GS-11s and GS-13s 
are hung out to dry, they have another thing coming.
  Now, some of you may say: Well, maybe there are investigations 
underway. Maybe these officers engaged in misconduct. We don't know. 
They won't give us answers. But here is what we do know: All four of 
them--all four--are currently on unrestricted Active Duty--unrestricted 
Active Duty.
  And I would add, all four--all four--are in the Special Operations 
Group for the Marshals Service, which means to say they are the 
marshals who are most likely to be deployed nationwide and put in 
circumstances that risk their lives and call for them to use violence, 
to include lethal violence.
  Now, I don't know the circumstances that led to the denial of 
representation of these four marshals or why some of them are being 
strung along, but I have to assume--I have to assume--that if they are 
on unrestricted Active Duty in the Special Operations Group of the 
Marshals Service, that Merrick Garland and Vanita Gupta can't have any 
doubts about their fitness to serve or their actions for all those 
weeks in Portland when they defended the courthouse from leftwing 
street militias.
  I understand my colleagues want to get their U.S. attorneys or their 
U.S. marshals confirmed. Maybe there are people at Main Justice they 
want to get confirmed as well. That is very simple. We could do it 
today. We could hear from Merrick Garland or Vanita Gupta that they 
will defend these four U.S. marshals in court or we could hear a 
satisfactory answer of why they won't defend the marshals in court.
  Is it because they were standing up to a leftwing street militia? Is 
it because they were taking a stance to defend Federal property from 
antifa? I don't know. We can't get an answer. Maybe my Democratic 
colleagues could get an answer.
  But to think that I am just going to roll over and allow the Senate 
to fast-track nominees to the Department, when GS-11s and GS-13s, law 
enforcement officials, are being hung up to dry--sorry.
  These are people--and I have talked to them--who were worried about 
buying Christmas gifts for their children last year because they had to 
pay legal fees, who are worried about paying the mortgage next month, 
who are worried about sending their kids to camp. Sorry if your lawyers 
have to wait for a week or two to get confirmed to the U.S. attorney's 
position. I am worried about four heroes who defended Federal property 
from leftwing street militias.
  So, yes, I do object.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. Baldwin). Objection is heard.
  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, try to follow that logic, if you will. 
The Senator is so committed to law enforcement, he is so committed to 
U.S. marshals, he won't let us appoint people to fill vacancies.
  He takes the case in Portland, OR, where he wrote a letter to the 
Department of Justice within the last 2 weeks asking for the status of 
their defense of these 74 individuals. Now, he knows, and we all know, 
that before we can take any action for anybody, we need a 
confidentiality waiver, a privacy statement. That is routine in all of 
our offices.
  Each one of these individuals, despite the interest of the junior 
Senator from Arkansas, has their own legal right to determine whether 
or not they want to waive any privacy so that they can tell the public 
or discuss even with the Senator their plight and how they want to 
address it.
  There is also something called the attorney-client privilege, which 
the Senator, I am sure, is aware of. That, too, is a privilege which 
allows the individual to deny ordinary access to information if they so 
choose. It is their decision.
  So the complication of the situation is ignored by the Senator from 
Arkansas. He is valiantly standing for U.S. marshals that he won't 
appoint. He believes they are important and that they give their lives 
to their country--and many have--and yet he won't let them stand up and 
do that on behalf of our communities.
  He wants an answer to his letter, and until he gets an answer to his 
letter, then we are not going to be able to put law enforcement in 
place to deal with crime in this country. We can make all the 
statements, run all the ads, make all the speeches on the floor about a 
concern for safety in our communities, and then the junior Senator from 
Arkansas says, ``I want you to be safe in your community, but you can't 
have a U.S. attorney to prosecute those would-be terrorists. You can't 
have a U.S. marshal for pursuit of fugitives from justice. You can't 
have a U.S. marshal to protect the courthouse for men and women who go 
to work there every day and risk their lives for the administration of 
justice.''
  This is upside down. We are talking about 74 individuals. The 
Department of Justice has said they are going to defend 70 of them. One 
is a question, I assume, whether he was acting in the scope of his 
employment, and three are under review. And for that reason, this 
Senator has decided to stop the administration of justice in these 
jurisdictions or at least slow it down. That makes no sense whatsoever.
  The basis for objecting to these individuals has nothing to do with 
their individual qualifications. He didn't raise a single question. All 
he said is, ``Your lawyers are going to have to wait,'' as if these 
were just lawyers waiting for a fee.
  These are men and women willing to serve, as he serves, in public 
service. It is more than just lawyers--not that there is anything wrong 
with that category of Americans--but it is individuals who are willing 
to engage in public service.
  And why are we in such a hurry? We are in the second year of this 
President's administration. It is time to fill these vacancies.
  As Senator Schumer said earlier on the floor, there are several on 
the Republican side who just want to drag this out interminably in the 
hopes that they can stop the Biden administration from filling these 
vacancies.
  My colleague from Arkansas asked whether the DOJ is representing 
Federal law enforcement personnel who protected the Federal courthouse 
in Portland. The FOX News headline about his letter said: ``Cotton 
places hold on DOJ nominees after refusal to defend US Marshals 
involved in Portland Antifa riots.''
  Here is the reality. The Department of Justice often represents or 
pays private counsel to represent Federal employees sued in their 
individual capacity, but there are some constraints, and I have 
mentioned them. For example, regulations require that the Department of 
Justice can only represent employees for actions within the scope of 
their employment; for example, protecting the Portland courthouse, 
which clearly is within the scope. And the Department of Justice can 
only represent them if doing so would be in the interest of the United 
States. It clearly would be if they are defending against terrorists.
  The Senator knows this. Do you know why he knows it? Because the

[[Page S742]]

Department of Justice responded to his letter. He just didn't like the 
response--it didn't go far enough.
  The Department said, ``The Department of Justice strongly supports 
the provision of representation to federal officers acting in the line 
of duty.'' The Department also told him that it represents or has paid 
for private counsel to represent 70 of these employees who have been 
sued in connection with the events in Portland, while denying only a 
single request for representation.
  I don't know the facts of that denial. I don't know if there has been 
a privacy waiver signed. I don't know if this individual said, ``I have 
an attorney-client privilege, and I don't have to tell the Senator from 
Arkansas or anyone what the circumstances are.'' The Senator from 
Arkansas is now demanding to know why the Department of Justice denied 
this one request for representation and why it is still reviewing three 
others. That is right--he is blocking the confirmation of critical law 
enforcement officials across the United States until he gets an answer 
that he likes.
  The DOJ has already explained that it cannot comment further--here is 
what they said--``in light of significant confidentiality interests and 
applicable privileges.'' As I mentioned earlier the privacy laws and 
attorney-client privilege.
  ``DOJ's regulations make it clear that communication about an 
employee's requests for representation are protected by the attorney-
client privilege, and the Privacy Act prevents DOJ from disclosing the 
personnel record of an employee,'' and that is as it should be.
  Let me be clear. These privileges protect the privacy of the very law 
enforcement personnel whose interests the Senator from Arkansas claims 
to represent.
  My Republican colleagues frequently claim to be the party of law and 
order, but in this matter and others, they are the ones playing 
politics with law enforcement because the Department of Justice will 
not snap to the Senator's request and violate standing Federal laws; 
because they won't ignore and violate those laws of privacy and 
attorney-client privilege, he is prepared to endanger the communities 
and law enforcement until he gets his way.
  I have heard my Republican colleagues time and again claiming that 
the Biden administration and Democratic mayors in big cities are 
responsible for violent crime. They claim that the increase in violent 
crime has nothing to do with the fact that America is awash in guns, 
that the reality is that the increase in violent crime started during 
the last administration, under President Trump. It is affecting 
communities led by both Republican and Democratic officials. And it is 
being driven by gun violence.
  FBI statistics show that 77 percent of homicides in 2020 were 
committed with guns. In Chicago, that number is higher. Ninety-three 
percent of homicides last year in Chicago were committed by gun.
  We face a gun violence crisis. The Judiciary Committee held five 
hearings last year on ways to reduce it. I am going to continue it this 
year. But if we are going to address this crisis, we are going to need 
Senators from both parties to show some courage and to admit that gun 
violence in America is a real problem.
  We also need Republicans to stop defending the violent insurrection 
that took place right in this Chamber on January 6, 2021. The Senator 
was present. All of us were. We will never forget that day as long as 
we live. Five brave police officers lost their lives as a result of 
what the Republican National Committee in its official policy position 
calls ``legitimate political discourse.''
  This is nothing new. Last year, Congress passed the American Rescue 
Plan--$350 billion for State and local governments. We made sure that 
funding was going to hire good law enforcement officials and invested 
in community violence intervention. Not a single Republican Senator 
approved it.
  There are areas where we are working together on bipartisan 
legislation, and I hope we will continue to. Last year, President Biden 
signed three laws in that area.
  I hope my Republican colleagues will take a lesson from today. If we 
are going to stand together, then let us all stand behind the Federal 
law enforcement team.
  When President Trump asked for his team, Democrats in the Senate 
cooperated and gave those people to him. They weren't the people we 
would have chosen, but he was President and had the right to do his 
best to protect this Nation. So does President Biden.
  President Biden has called for significant increases for our police 
in the Byrne Justice Program and the COPS Hiring Program, but this 
important funding has been delayed by debate over appropriations. We 
shouldn't delay the appointment of these key law enforcement officials 
either.
  Again and again, Democrats are working to support law enforcement and 
to keep Americans safe. Sometimes we are joined in these efforts by 
Republicans and other times not, but there is no benefit to law 
enforcement when Senators block the confirmation of well-qualified U.S. 
attorney and U.S. marshal nominees, as we see today.

  I urge the Senator from Arkansas to stand up for law enforcement. A 
political story on FOX is not worth undermining the lives of innocent 
Americans. We have to end this obstruction and let these nominees 
protect and serve.
  I now yield to Senator Klobuchar.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The junior Senator from Arkansas.
  Mr. COTTON. Madam President, I am surprised to hear the Senator from 
Illinois continue to refer to this as a political issue or a political 
story when we have career law enforcement officers who put their lives 
on the line to defend Federal property from leftwing street militias. 
And they are worried if they can put the food on the table for their 
children, if they can buy them gifts at Christmas, if they can put 
braces on them, if they can send them to summer camp.
  I don't consider that a political issue; I consider it standing up 
for law enforcement--not just these four but every deputy marshal 
around the country who forms the backbone of the Marshals Service, the 
backbone of the Marshals Service all across the country, who have to 
wonder if maybe they are going to be the next one to be hung out to dry 
by the Department of Justice if they confront a rioter with the wrong 
politics.
  This is not a political issue.
  Now, the Senator from Illinois continues to speak about 
confidentiality and attorney-client privilege as if this is all 
information that has been communicated to these four marshals and they 
just don't want to share it with us here in the Senate. That is not the 
case. Three of them, I would say, haven't heard anything. In a lawsuit 
that is almost 18 months old, they have been told nothing yet. That is 
why they have had to go out and retain their own counsel.
  One of them was denied representation with no more basis than saying 
it is not in the interest of the United States of America. Well, 
forgive me if I don't trust Vanita Gupta to determine what is in the 
interest of the United States when it comes to defending law 
enforcement.
  These marshals are told that these determinations are final and there 
is no appeal and there is no recourse. Well, I am the recourse now.
  The Senator from Illinois keeps talking about these urgent law 
enforcement needs in his own State of Illinois. I would point out that 
the position that is empty has been empty since 2018. If it was so 
urgent, the Senator from Illinois could have cooperated with the Trump 
administration and tried to fill it then. These U.S. attorney positions 
that are empty--President Biden fired all U.S. attorneys a year ago. If 
it was so urgent to have Senate-confirmed U.S. attorneys in position, 
he could have asked them to continue to serve until he was able to find 
suitable replacements.
  The Senator from Illinois also said: Well, Senator Cotton got his 
letter responded to. I am not looking for some courtesy exchange of 
letters here; I am trying to protect four U.S. marshals who defended 
the Portland courthouse from a leftwing street militia, who have been 
hung out to dry, imperiling the confidence of all marshals across the 
country in whether or not their political leadership at the Department 
of Justice will back them up when they are in a controversy. The 
Department still won't answer that. They won't

[[Page S743]]

take any steps to answer it. They simply hide behind confidentiality 
and privilege just like they are hiding behind it with these four U.S. 
marshals--after 18 months.
  What is so complicated? As the Senator from Illinois said, they are 
representing 70 others. What makes these four so different? Maybe they 
engaged in misconduct. Is that possible given the fact that they are 
all on unrestricted active duty in the Special Operations Group, the 
element of the marshals most likely to have to use violence, to include 
lethal violence? Would Merrick Garland and Vanita Gupta really send 
them back out on the streets if they had engaged in misconduct in 
Portland?
  These marshals deserve better, and they could get better if the 
Department of Justice would just agree to represent them or if they 
would give a satisfactory, fact-based answer about why they are not 
representing them. Maybe some of my Democratic colleagues could call 
Merrick Garland or Vanita Gupta and ask them for such an answer or 
maybe just call them and say: Why don't you represent these four 
marshals? That seems like the obvious, satisfactory outcome for 
everyone here: U.S. marshals are represented in court, as they should 
be, and we can go back to fast-tracking Department of Justice nominees. 
But until we get to that outcome, we won't be fast-tracking Department 
nominees because I will continue to stand up for these brave men of law 
enforcement who deserve better from this Department of Justice.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The senior Senator from Minnesota.
  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President, I rise today in support of the two 
nominees from my State: Andy Luger, who has been nominated to be the 
U.S. attorney for the District of Minnesota; and Eddie Frizell, a 
veteran, serving our country bravely overseas, who has been nominated 
to be the U.S. marshal.
  I was sitting here thinking to myself as I listened to Senator Cotton 
that there were a lot of things I disagreed with at the Trump Justice 
Department--many, many things; many, many things--but never once did I 
think about holding up the U.S. attorney of Arkansas or of Arizona or 
of Illinois because I disagreed with Donald Trump. Why? Because as 
someone who used to be in law enforcement, I understand how important 
these positions are, and I don't think they should be held hostage 
simply because he happens to have a disagreement about something the 
Justice Department is doing.
  There were so many things that I disagreed with Bill Barr and his 
associates about, and not only did I support the nominee for Minnesota 
whom Donald Trump put up for both the marshal and the U.S. attorney and 
voted for them, but I actually issued a public statement saying that 
they were qualified. I worked with them, and I talked to them ahead of 
time, and I actually liked them, because they might not have been, as 
the Senator from Illinois pointed out, my first choice, but there was 
something larger than politics and my first choice. My first choice was 
our justice system, our country, and the safety of our citizens.
  Right now, in my home State, they do not understand why a Senator 
from Arkansas is holding up law enforcement in the State of Minnesota.
  As the chief Federal law enforcement officer for their respective 
districts, U.S. attorneys are critical to ensuring that American 
communities are kept safe. This role is so vital that the Founders 
created the position during the very first Congress as part of the 
Judiciary Act of 1789. This is the same act that created the Attorney 
General and the structure of the courts.
  Today, in my State, the U.S. attorney leads a team of nearly 130 
dedicated law enforcement professionals, including 65 assistant U.S. 
attorneys. The office is responsible for bringing to justice those who 
commit a range of Federal crimes, including drug trafficking, child 
exploitation, cyber crimes, and national security matters.
  After 9/11, it was the U.S. Attorney's Office in my home State of 
Minnesota that was involved in what was known as the hijacker who got 
caught. A citizen turned him in, and it was our U.S. Attorney's Office 
that worked with New York on that case.
  It was our U.S. Attorney's Office that took on the second biggest 
white-collar case next to Madoff and won.
  It was our U.S. Attorney's Office, under the nominee who is right now 
on the floor, Andy Luger, that took on perhaps the most infamous 
missing children case in the country. I know that the Presiding 
Officer, being from the State of Wisconsin, knows this case of Jacob 
Wetterling--sad, tragic case. He was able to put together the puzzle 
pieces that had eluded law enforcement because of his vast experience 
working as an assistant in the State of New York, working in Minnesota 
in this very office as an assistant and working his way up. He was able 
to put together that case with local, State, and Federal law 
enforcement and solve it and bring some justice and bring some closure 
for the Wetterling family, who will never see their son again. That is 
Andy Luger.
  This is a guy who took on a sex trafficking case on his own with a 
young woman trafficked in the city of Rochester and brought the case to 
trial. This is someone who has reached out to our communities--our 
Native American communities--and gotten things done.
  And this is someone, based on my discussions, Senator Cotton, with 
the Trump White House, that they would have actually, after firing all 
the U.S. attorneys, would have had him back. He decided to go to the 
private sector for a while, and now he is ready to come back.
  So this is someone whom I have gotten calls about, since you put this 
hold on all the U.S. attorneys, from Republican Members of Congress who 
think we need him in place. I have gotten calls from Republicans across 
my State who want to put this guy in place.
  We have double jeopardy here for my State because you are not only 
holding up, Senator Cotton, the U.S. attorney for the State of 
Minnesota, you are also holding up the U.S. marshal.
  Andy Luger, the U.S. attorney nominee, as I noted, previously led the 
U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Minnesota from 2014 to 2017. 
His proven experience is exactly what is needed to handle the 
challenges facing law enforcement in Minnesota today.
  He has been waiting since January 1 to get this done because he 
figured this went well before the Committee--so he is waiting. He is 
waiting to serve our State, as is our U.S. marshal candidate.
  In addition to the U.S. Attorney's Office, for over 160 years, the 
U.S. Marshals Service has helped keep Minnesota safe, protecting public 
servants, tracking down and apprehending fugitives, and operating the 
Witness Protection Program.
  President Biden's nominee to serve as U.S. marshal for the District 
of Minnesota, as I noted, is Eddie Frizell. Chief Frizell was 
recommended by a selection committee, as was Andy Luger that Senator 
Smith and I convened. It included leaders in Minnesota's law 
enforcement advocacy and communities.
  Eddie Frizell brings nearly 30 years of experience in law enforcement 
in my State, including serving as a chief of police for the Metro 
Transit Police Department. As I noted, he is also a 30-year veteran of 
the Minnesota Army National Guard.
  I once met him coming off a plane after his deployment. I will never 
forget that moment. As the brave soldiers are getting off that plane, I 
thought, ``I know that guy.'' Yes, I was a Senator now. I knew him when 
he was a police officer and I was a county attorney. Thirty years, 
veteran of the Minnesota Army National Guard, including two overseas 
deployments--one to Bosnia and another to Kuwait and Iraq. Throughout 
his career, he has led by example, immersing himself in the community 
and becoming what our newspaper called a ``model of persistence.'' His 
proven experience is exactly what is needed.
  So why haven't we been able to confirm these two nominees, both of 
whom moved through the Judiciary Committee on a voice vote with broad 
bipartisan support, after I, as I noted, proudly supported President 
Trump's nominees--who, by the way, they went into their jobs, and they 
did their jobs.
  That is how we do law enforcement. That is how it is supposed to 
work. This hold has nothing to with the qualifications of the nominees 
for my State. Instead, as Senator Durbin has just noted, Senator Cotton 
has put an

[[Page S744]]

indiscriminate hold on all the Department of Justice law enforcement 
nominees, stalling appointments for critical positions in Illinois, 
Georgia, Nevada, Michigan, Ohio, the Virgin Islands, and, yes, my State 
of Minnesota. And I am sure, if he continues this--and as Senator 
Schumer has noted, he is going to have to call up votes for positions 
that, during the Trump administration, went through with consent during 
the Trump administration.
  These nominees in these States are ready to serve millions of 
Americans, including 5.7 million people in my State who need the 
leadership of a permanent U.S. attorney and U.S. marshal.
  Senator Cotton is seeking information from the Department of Justice, 
and I hope that his questions are answered, but I cannot stand by and 
let him use critical law enforcement nominations as leverage.
  I note--and I will end with this--the timetables. During the last 
administration, Erica MacDonald--the U.S. attorney I mentioned, former 
judge who had been appointed by Tim Pawlenty--whom I met with in my 
house so I could make sure that we moved her nomination quickly, she 
was confirmed by the Senate, Senator Durbin, to be U.S. attorney the 
same day her nomination was reported by the Judiciary Committee on May 
24, 2018.
  Tom Heffelfinger was nominated by, by the way, two President Bushes--
the first and the second President Bush. When he was nominated by 
President George W. Bush to be U.S. attorney for Minnesota, his 
nomination was received by the Senate on September 4, 2001. He was 
reported favorably by the Judiciary Committee on September 13 and 
confirmed by the full Senate the next day. His entire confirmation 
process took 10 days.
  And, by the way, when he retired from his position, he then served on 
my selection committees--the U.S. attorney who had served under both 
President Bushes. This is how law enforcement is supposed to work.
  Before him, Todd Jones, who became, by the way, the head of the ATF--
he was nominated by President Bill Clinton to be U.S. attorney for 
Minnesota. His nomination was received in the Senate on October 7, 
1998. He was reported favorably by the Judiciary Committee the next day 
and confirmed by the full Senate on October 21, 1998. His entire 
confirmation process took only 14 days.
  Finally, there was James Rosenbalm, who was nominated by President 
Ronald Reagan to be the U.S. attorney for Minnesota. His nomination was 
received by the Senate on October 21, 1981. He was reported favorably 
out of the Judiciary Committee that day and was confirmed by the full 
Senate that day. His entire confirmation process happened in 1 day.

  I hope we can get back to this tradition of cooperation and 
recognition that these law enforcement leaders aren't pawns in a 
political game. They are needed to help keep our communities safe and 
deserve to move through the Senate expeditiously.
  We expect sound judgment from Federal law enforcement. Our 
constituents expect sound judgment when it comes to confirming top 
Federal law enforcement officers for a State. And it is time to do the 
right thing by confirming not just Mr. Luger and Mr. Frizell but the 
other law enforcement officers who have been held up. And I am happy to 
come back here day after day after day until we get this done.
  The people who work in the U.S. Attorney's Office, Marshals Office, 
and my constituents deserve to have people in place.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The senior Senator from Illinois.
  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, in the interest of allowing the Senators 
who are wishing to speak an appropriate amount of time and within the 
confines of our upcoming vote, I ask unanimous consent that there be 40 
minutes, equally divided, between the majority and minority; that the 
majority side be recognized in the order of Senators Rosen, Cortez 
Masto, Duckworth, and Brown.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The junior Senator from Arkansas.
  Mr. COTTON. Madam President, I feel like we are ships passing in the 
night here. I could go on and on about the exploits of these deputy 
marshals when they were Rangers and Green Berets and what they did in 
combat. But my Democratic colleagues aren't getting the heart of the 
matter: why they are being denied representation for defending the 
courthouse in Portland.
  So I will direct a question to the Senator from Minnesota through the 
Chair: Does she believe that these four U.S. marshals should be 
represented in court like all other marshals are being represented?
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The senior Senator from Minnesota.
  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Being that I am the Senator from Minnesota and I am 
not on the staff of the Attorney General of the United States and I 
have nothing to with the State in which this happened, I am not aware 
of all the facts of this. And I think it would actually be 
inappropriate for me to be involved in Justice Department policy. I am 
here on behalf of the people in my State, and I want to get someone in 
place.
  And I have made the case, Senator Cotton, that at no time did I not 
only hold up the U.S. attorneys or the marshals under Donald Trump, I 
actually supported the ones in my State. And I am just asking for that 
same courtesy for the people of my State. We have talked about this 
before. And I simply believe that we should be able to get our U.S. 
attorneys and marshals in place. And you can do what you want to 
complain about what is going on in the Justice Department, to make your 
case to them, to go on TV about it, to make speeches in this Chamber, 
to write letters about it, to advocate, to gather your friends who 
might support you on this, but you shouldn't be hurting the people of 
my State while you do it.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The junior Senator from Nevada.
  Ms. ROSEN. Madam President, I urge my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle to allow these highly qualified Federal law enforcement 
nominations to move forward.
  In my State of Nevada, the position of U.S. attorney has been 
unfilled for nearly a year.
  This position, well, it plays a vital role in maintaining the rule of 
law and making sure that justice is carried out in our State. The 
continued obstruction of these critical nominees impacts the public 
safety of Nevadans and impacts their ability to see justice served.
  They have a highly qualified nominee to serve as U.S. attorney, Jason 
Frierson. He is a graduate of the University of Nevada, Reno, and the 
Boyd Law School of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. He is a former 
Nevada Supreme Court clerk. And he served in the district attorney's 
office as a public defender and as a deputy attorney general for our 
great State.
  In addition, Mr. Frierson has a long track record of fighting for 
hard-working Nevadans as speaker of the Nevada Assembly. I know he will 
lead in his role with integrity--integrity and a deep commitment to 
upholding the law as a top Federal prosecutor for our State.
  There is absolutely no basis to delay his nomination and the 
nominations of other U.S. attorneys and marshals around the country. 
Holding up these qualified nominees does not help Americans. It only 
leaves them unprotected.
  We must rise above partisan politics and do our duty to allow these 
key roles to be filled. For all of the people, for my State of Nevada, 
I urge my colleagues to allow the nomination of Jason Frierson and the 
other nominees in this block to finally move forward.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The junior Senator from Arkansas.
  Mr. COTTON. Madam President, again, I feel like we are ships passing 
in the night, not getting to the point here. So I will address a 
question to the junior Senator through the Chair, slightly differently 
than when I spoke to the Senator from Minnesota.
  If officers are returned to unrestricted Active Duty on the Special 
Operations Group, does the Senator believe that they should be 
represented for past incidents of alleged misuse of force?
  Ms. ROSEN. Senator, I will reiterate what my colleague from Minnesota 
said. I do not serve on the Judiciary Committee, and I do not serve in 
the Department of Justice. Therefore, I am not privy to the information 
that has been provided in privacy to the Department of Justice.

[[Page S745]]

  Those marshals, if they would like to divulge their information, they 
are free to do so as U.S. citizens. But there are privacy agreements 
with attorney-client privilege that is clearly not being able to be 
pursued in this fashion. So my opinion does not matter. What matters is 
the law. I do not serve in the Department of Justice; therefore I 
cannot answer your question.
  Mr. COTTON. Unfortunately, they don't have any information to 
divulge. That is part of my point. The Department of Justice won't tell 
them why they are not being represented.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The senior Senator from Nevada.
  Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Madam President, I rise to join my good colleague 
Senator Rosen and my other colleagues in urging our friend and Senator 
from Arkansas to allow the nomination of these candidates for U.S. 
attorney and U.S. marshal to move forward.
  And let me just start by answering the question that you have posed 
to both of my colleagues because I think it needs to be reframed. I 
think the premise really is this. There is no doubt that your ultimate 
goal here--and you have an ultimate goal that you are trying to 
achieve, and I don't question that. I do question, though, the 
procedure and the means by which you choose to succeed in your goal. 
And that is what we are talking about, Senator Cotton, because, at the 
end of the day, what you are trying to do is literally stand for U.S. 
marshals while at the same time harming the U.S. Marshals Service by 
not allowing two nominees to go before and get appointed to the U.S. 
Marshals Service. Likewise, you are adding to that--U.S. attorneys 
across the country, including one in the State of Nevada, who are on 
the frontlines of the law and order that we need in this country.
  As you well know, U.S. attorneys work with U.S. marshals across the 
country to address violent crime in this country and prosecute it, to 
address drug trafficking, human trafficking, murders, and so on. So 
that means what you are trying to achieve here is actually harming law 
and order across the country. I don't think you intend to do that. I 
hope not. But that is what we are questioning right now, is the means 
by which you are trying to achieve here--what we are asking is for you 
to reconsider because at the end of the day--and I heard you earlier. I 
think you made some comment saying: Sorry your lawyers have to wait to 
get confirmed in a week or two. You know better. These aren't just 
lawyers. You know U.S. attorneys across this country are on the 
frontline of law and order. They are key to prosecuting essential 
crimes that we need to address in this country, including working with 
our U.S. marshals along with the FBI and other essential Federal 
Agencies.
  I would ask that you reconsider the means by which you are trying to 
achieve your goal because in Nevada, the position of U.S. attorney has 
been vacant for a full year. The President has nominated Jason Frierson 
for that role. As you heard, Senator Rosen and I both support this 
excellent candidate, and the full Senate needs to confirm him and let 
him get to work.
  You have heard his background. He is more than qualified for this 
position, and I am not hearing from you that you have concerns about 
his qualifications. But he is essential to ensure that we get somebody 
in place, confirmed very swiftly, so that he can get to work on behalf 
of the people in the State of Nevada and be on the frontlines of 
addressing and ensuring we have law and order not only in Nevada but 
across the country in these other States.
  My question to you, Senator Cotton, is, would you reconsider the 
means by which you are trying to achieve your goal so that you are not 
harming those men and women who are on the frontlines of law and order 
across the country, including here in the State of Nevada that we are 
talking about? And you will hear from some of my other colleagues.
  So I pose the question to you, Senator, through the Chair.
  Mr. COTTON. If that is a question for me, I reject the premise of 
your question. I am not harming law enforcement; I am standing up for 
law enforcement.
  Once again, if you deny four U.S. marshals legal representation 
because they stood up to leftwing street militias--which may be 
unpopular in certain quarters of your party--then you cause every 
marshal across the country and, for that matter, every law enforcement 
official across the country to doubt whether their political superiors 
are going to defend them in the future.
  Look, if you want to have a broader debate about law enforcement, I 
can, but we are going to be here for a long time.
  It is your party that voted in lockstep for the FIRST STEP Act that 
let thousands of violent felons back on the street who have now 
committed innumerable violent crimes. It is your party that marched and 
chanted in the streets for defunding the police. It is the Democratic 
floor leader who blocked my resolution in the summer of 2020 to condemn 
the ``defund the police'' movement. You all voted in lockstep to 
confirm Vanita Gupta, the Associate Attorney General, who is 
responsible ultimately for these decisions, even though I and other 
Republicans cautioned you she would use her position to wage a war on 
the police from the Department of Justice. That is what is happening 
now.
  I am standing up for law enforcement.
  Mr. DURBIN. Would the Senator from Nevada yield for a point?
  Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Yes.
  Mr. DURBIN. The FIRST STEP Act--the Democrats did the FIRST STEP Act, 
the Republicans were in the majority. It was a bill sponsored by 
Senators Grassley, Durbin, Lee, and many others. Who signed it into 
law? Donald Trump signed it into law, this so-called Democratic 
measure.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The senior Senator from Nevada.
  Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Madam President, I am disappointed because I hear 
my colleague, but he is not listening. He keeps repeating the same 
talking point that he is defending law enforcement when, at the same 
time, he is harming law enforcement across the country. This really is 
nonsensical. It does not make sense not only to me and my colleagues 
but to the general public that is watching.
  We are talking about filling positions at the U.S. Marshals Service 
and U.S. Attorney's Offices across the country. They are essential to 
addressing what we see across the country and ensuring that there is 
law and order.
  So it is the means by which you are trying to achieve your goal which 
we would ask you to consider. Unfortunately, I am not hearing from my 
colleague from Arkansas that he is willing to reconsider it and stand 
up for law and order across this country and support the U.S. 
Attorney's Offices and marshals who need to be appointed.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The junior Senator from Arkansas.
  Mr. COTTON. To respond to the Senator from Illinois, it is true that 
President Trump signed the FIRST STEP Act. The FIRST STEP Act was the 
worst mistake of the Trump administration. Yes, it is true that a 
number of Republican Senators voted for it. They were wrong. They 
didn't start demanding that we defund the police in the summer of 2020. 
They condemned that. They stood up for law enforcement.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The junior Senator from Illinois.
  Ms. DUCKWORTH. Madam President, I join my colleagues, the Senators 
from Nevada and Minnesota, in my frustration as to why we are here 
today.
  Today, I am joining them and urging my colleagues to join me in 
calling for the swift confirmation of Chief LaDon Reynolds to be the 
U.S. marshal for the Northern District of Illinois. As a seasoned law 
enforcement officer, Chief Reynolds is more than ready to take on the 
challenges of this important leadership role, including playing a key 
part in addressing the rising violent crime devastating our communities 
in Northern Illinois.
  Yet the only reason he is not already confirmed to this position is 
because of a hold from Senator Cotton--a hold that is completely 
unrelated to Chief Reynolds' immense qualifications. These 
qualifications include serving with distinction as the chief of police 
of the Oak Park Police Department for nearly 30 years, teaching law 
enforcement officers about the importance of community-oriented 
policing at the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and

[[Page S746]]

Standards Board Executive Institute, and working to protect communities 
from rising hate as a board member of Governor Pritzker's Commission on 
Discrimination and Hate Crimes.
  Senator Durbin and I carefully reviewed Chief Reynolds' experience 
and expertise. It is clear to us and the White House that he is the 
best fit for the job. What we are asking for now is simply to let 
Reynolds get to work; let him take charge of an office that has already 
gone without Senate-confirmed leadership for 4 years. We need to have a 
confirmed U.S. marshal leading Federal law enforcement operations to 
secure our Federal courthouses and capture violent fugitives of the 
law.
  As U.S. marshal, Reynolds would also play an important role in the 
Biden administration's multijurisdictional strike force to investigate 
and prosecute gun traffickers channeling deadly weapons into the city 
of Chicago.
  Every day, there are new stories of horrifying and often deadly 
impacts of rising violent crimes in the Northern District of Illinois. 
In fact, last year was one of the city of Chicago's deadliest in 
decades.
  But statistics alone cannot fully describe the devastation our 
communities have endured. For so many Chicagoans, the presence of gun 
violence is a constant source of trauma and grief in their day-to-day 
lives. It is painful and gut-wrenching to see this sort of senseless 
violence happen again and again.
  We cannot wait any longer to advance Reynolds' confirmation, 
especially not for his nomination to be used as a pawn for Senator 
Cotton to expedite a response to his unrelated pending inquiry to the 
U.S. Department of Justice. Instead, we must act to make sure the 
Northern District of Illinois U.S. Marshal's Office has the leadership 
it needs to fulfill its mission of administering justice and enforcing 
the law.
  If Senator Cotton is serious about tackling violent crime and making 
our communities safe, then we must move forward with confirming LaDon 
Reynolds to be the next U.S. marshal for the Northern District of 
Illinois now. Chief Reynolds' nomination has my full support.
  I request that Senator Cotton lift his blanket hold on the U.S. 
attorney and U.S. marshal nominees pending consideration before the 
Senate, including Reynolds' nomination.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The junior Senator from Arkansas.
  Mr. COTTON. We keep hearing that this is unrelated, as if I am upset 
with something the Coast Guard did or the Corps of Engineers wants to 
improve some water project in Arkansas. These are Department of Justice 
nominees, and right now, the Department of Justice is not standing up 
for law enforcement officers by hanging these four marshals out to dry. 
That is why I am not agreeing to fast-track these nominees. I am not 
going to agree to fast-track political nominees while the Department of 
Justice hangs out to dry career law enforcement officers.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The senior Senator from Ohio.
  Mr. BROWN. Fast-track? Fast-track? Senator Cortez Masto said it has 
been a year since they have had a U.S. attorney confirmed, sitting in 
Nevada. In Ohio now, it has been--let me count the days--404 days since 
6 million people in the Northern District of Ohio last had a permanent 
U.S. attorney leading the office. Senator Cotton, with his demagoguery, 
comes down here and talks about fast-track? I don't know what speed 
they move in Arkansas, but I would not consider what we are trying to 
do as fast-track.
  They have been vetted. Senator Portman supports this nominee. Let me 
talk about that.
  We know the pandemic has caused an alarming rise in violent crime, 
especially gun crimes. The Northern District of Ohio, which includes 
Toledo, Cleveland, Akron, Canton, Youngstown, Mansfield, Warren--cities 
in basically the northern half of the State. The U.S. attorney has the 
highest caseload in the last 30 years, filing a record 846 indictments 
in 2021 alone without a full-time, confirmed U.S. attorney.
  Even before the pandemic, the district had a staggering caseload 
after reaching a record low in 2016, with only 363 new cases through, 
Senator Cotton, I might add, the Obama administration. The number of 
new cases began to climb in 2017, at the beginning of the Trump 
administration, if you want to play those games, Senator Cotton. The 
number of new cases rose to 706 in 2018. This as kept climbing since. 
Last year, there were 170 homicides in the city of Cleveland, where my 
wife and I live--another 30-year record--not to mention a surge in 
carjackings.
  We need to fill key law enforcement positions in Ohio and, as Senator 
Cortez Masto said, as Senator Durbin said, in their States--and Senator 
Rosen and Senator Duckworth. We need to fill these key law enforcement 
positions.
  I hear from Ohio police officers that they are in desperate need of 
help, while we, through--Senator Cotton and others accuse Democrats of 
undermining police or whatever term they use--a term that none of us 
use--when we have supported local governments with more dollars so they 
can hire more police while you oppose those same positions, as we know. 
So we are working with local police to get them that help, whether it 
is confirming U.S. marshals, whether it is confirming U.S. attorneys.
  Thankfully, we have an extremely qualified nominee in Ohio who is 
ready and eager to serve. The only thing standing in our way is the 
U.S. Senate. Apparently, the only thing standing in the Senate's way is 
Senator Cotton, although I am sure somebody else would be willing to 
take his place.
  Marissa Darden is a seasoned prosecutor with extensive experience, a 
lead attorney in both civil and criminal cases. As an assistant U.S. 
attorney in the Northern District, she was recognized for her work on 
several cases involving highly complex legal issues. She received the 
National High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Award for outstanding 
opioid investigation effort in 2016 and for outstanding investigative 
effort in 2019.
  Listen to what some people have said. Federal District Court Judge 
Benita Pearson: You can be assured that Darden will fiercely enforce 
the law while treating all--attorneys, staff, the accused, and the 
community--with respect and appropriate sensitivity.
  Former Acting U.S. Attorney Justin Herdman, nominated by President 
Trump and supported by Senator Portman and me both--U.S. Attorney 
Justin Herdman was the last confirmed U.S. attorney in the Northern 
District. He described her as an attorney of outstanding ability and 
unquestioned integrity. He said that she is a leader who has a proven 
track record of delivering results inside and outside the courtroom.
  First Assistant Federal Public Defender Jacqueline Johnson told us 
that this was her first recommendation for U.S. attorney in 38 years of 
practicing in the Northern District. She said she based her 
recommendation on her belief that Ms. Darden possesses the intellect, 
vision, temperament, and judgment needed to lead the U.S. Attorney's 
Office during this perilous season.
  DEA Special Agent in Charge Keith Martin. With 26 years of 
experience, she is one of the best he has ever encountered, he said. He 
explained that she was phenomenal in her interaction with law 
enforcement, cooperative, and stands on her principles. He can't 
imagine a better choice.
  These qualifications--I repeat that Senator Portman also supports Ms. 
Darden's nomination. Her confirmation would also be historic, making 
her the first African-American woman to ever serve as U.S. attorney in 
Ohio.
  Unfortunately, Senator Cotton blocks this nomination in addition to 
these eight other law enforcement nominees. By his own admission, his 
objections to these nominees have nothing to do with their 
qualifications.
  I support his desire to get answers from DOJ. He should get them. But 
the solution for his disagreement with DOJ is not with the 6 million 
Ohio citizens who pay a price or the millions of citizens in Illinois 
or in Nevada who pay a price, or Minnesota or anywhere.
  The last thing I will say, last week I spoke with police officers, 
one of the many kind of roundtable zooms I do around the State with 
police officers from around the State. One officer conveyed his 
colleagues' frustration with politics today. He told me that officers 
in his department have begun leaving letters on their lockers that say, 
if

[[Page S747]]

they are killed in the line of duty, they want no elected officials 
invited to their funerals.
  He said, the notes don't say no Democrats, no Republicans; they say 
no elected officials. A whole bunch of them. The reason for that is the 
gamesmanship we see right now, that we are not willing to confirm U.S. 
attorneys, U.S. marshals, in many cases, Federal district judges, just 
because somebody's been offended by the lack of a letter or something 
somebody at the Justice Department said to them.
  The fact is we need to do this. It will help our States, it will help 
our country combat crime.
  Let's heed this officer's warning and come together to get qualified 
and talented law enforcement officials and professionals on the job.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The junior Senator from Arkansas.
  Mr. COTTON. Madam President, so contrary to what the Senator from 
Ohio says, I am not offended by the lack of a letter or offended by 
something someone said. I'm offended that four U.S. marshals--four U.S. 
marshals had to decide whether they are going to have enough money to 
buy Christmas gifts for their kids, pay their mortgage next month, put 
braces on their kids, send them to summer camp because that is the 
position that the Department of Justice has put them in.
  To recap, four U.S. marshals were among dozens deployed to Portland 
last summer to guard the courthouse from leftwing street militias. They 
were targeted with blinding lasers, ball bearings, fireworks. There was 
an effort to barricade them into the courthouse and set it afire to 
burn them alive.
  Now leftwing activists in leftwing organizations like the ACLU are 
suing them, and the Department of Justice won't provide them 
representation, won't even tell them why they are not providing them 
representation.
  Maybe they engaged in some kind of misconduct? Maybe it was excessive 
force? That would be strange, because all four of these deputy marshals 
are now back on unrestricted active duty with the special operations 
group of the Marshal Service, the element most likely to be sent into 
the most dangerous circumstances and have to use violence, including 
lethal violence.
  It would be pretty strange to send them back to the special 
operations group with no restrictions if they engaged in some kind of 
misconduct in Portland. That is what this is about and what it does to 
undermine the faith and confidence of every career law enforcement 
professional in the Department of Justice.
  So, no, I will not agree to fast-track political nominees to the 
Department when the Department leadership is hanging out to dry career 
law enforcement officers.
  Mr. DURBIN. Will the Senator yield for a question? I ask the question 
through the Chair.
  Has the Senator been given a privacy waiver by the one marshal that 
the Department of Justice is not going to defend?
  Mr. COTTON. No, I have not. But I know that the response that that 
marshal received was that the denial of representation was not in the 
interest of the United States. No more----
  Mr. DURBIN. How much time do we have? I am sorry. Go ahead.
  Mr. COTTON. No more facts, no more explanation, just like the three 
who are waiting for a determination and have been waiting for more than 
a year do not have any fact-based explanation.
  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, how much time do we have remaining?
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. There are 1 minute 13 seconds.
  Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, that last admission by the Senator from 
Arkansas tells the whole story. He doesn't even know why the Department 
is turning down representation of 1 person out of 74. They have agreed 
to represent 70 of these U.S. marshal employees, and they said they 
will represent them; and three are under review. One has been turned 
down; and he hasn't received a privacy waiver, so he doesn't know why. 
I don't know why either. But you know who is paying the price for it?
  Millions of Americans who are asking for Federal law enforcement to 
be adequately staffed to do their job. The U.S. attorneys and U.S. 
marshals that want to keep us safe and be part of the team to do that. 
And because this Senator suspects there may be something suspicious 
about this, he doesn't have a privacy waiver, he is going to hold up 
those officials throughout the United States and put their communities 
in peril. Tell me that that is devotion to law enforcement.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The junior Senator from Arkansas.
  Mr. COTTON. This is exactly the point. Privacy waiver or not, what 
does it matter? Here is what we do know. Here is what we do know. That 
none of these four know why they were denied representation or why they 
haven't had a determination. We know that. And we know that they were 
sent back on unrestricted active duty to the special operations group.
  I think the Department of Justice political leadership owes these 
brave law enforcement officers an answer before it hangs them out to 
dry and exposes them to risk of financial ruin and bankruptcy.
  Mr. DURBIN. I yield back.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is all time yielded back?
  Mr. COTTON. I yield back.

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 151 (Tuesday, September 20, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4863-S4864]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   SENATE RESOLUTION 783--COMMEMORATING THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE 
 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE AND CELEBRATING THE 
   UNITED STATES AIR FORCE FOR 75 YEARS OF SERVING AND DEFENDING THE 
                             UNITED STATES

  Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
Warnock, and Ms. Rosen) submitted the following resolution; which was 
considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 783

       Whereas, on August 1, 1907, the Aeronautical Division of 
     the Army Signal Corps, consisting of 1 officer and 2 enlisted 
     men, began operation under the command of Captain Charles 
     deForest Chandler with the responsibility for ``all matters 
     pertaining to military ballooning, air machines, and all 
     kindred subjects'';
       Whereas, in 1908, the Department of War contracted with the 
     Wright brothers to build 1 heavier-than-air flying machine 
     for the Army and, in 1909, the Department of War accepted the 
     Wright Military Flyer, the first military airplane in the 
     world;
       Whereas pilots of the United States, flying with both 
     Allied air forces and with the Army Air Service, performed 
     admirably during the course of World War I, the first air war 
     in history, by participating in pursuit, observation, and day 
     and night bombing missions;
       Whereas pioneering aviators of the United States, including 
     Mason M. Patrick, William ``Billy'' Mitchell, Benjamin D. 
     Foulois, Frank M. Andrews, Henry H. ``Hap'' Arnold, James H. 
     ``Jimmy'' Doolittle, and Edward ``Eddie'' Rickenbacker, were 
     among the first individuals to recognize the military 
     potential of airpower and, in the decades following World War 
     I, courageously laid the foundation for the creation of an 
     independent arm for the air forces of the United States;
       Whereas General Henry H. ``Hap'' Arnold drew upon the 
     industrial prowess and human resources of the United States 
     to transform the Army Air Corps from a force of 22,000 men 
     and 3,900 aircraft in 1939, into an entity with a peak 
     wartime strength of nearly 2,500,000 personnel and 75,000 
     aircraft;
       Whereas, on June 20, 1941, the Department of War 
     established the Army Air Forces as the aviation element of 
     that Department and, shortly thereafter, the Department made 
     the Army Air Forces co-equal to the Army Ground Forces;
       Whereas the standard for courage, flexibility, and 
     intrepidity in combat was established for all airmen during 
     the first aerial raid in the Pacific Theater on April 18, 
     1942, when Lieutenant Colonel James ``Jimmy'' H. Doolittle 
     led 16 North American B-25 Mitchell bombers in a joint 
     operation from the deck of the USS Hornet to strike the 
     Japanese mainland in response to the Japanese attack on Pearl 
     Harbor;
       Whereas the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 
     et seq.), signed into law by President Harry S. Truman, 
     realigned and reorganized the Armed Forces to establish the 
     Department of the Air Force and the United States Air Force 
     (referred to in this preamble as the ``USAF'') as separate 
     from other military services;
       Whereas, on September 18, 1947, W. Stuart Symington became 
     the first Secretary of the newly formed and independent Air 
     Force, marking the date on which the USAF was established;
       Whereas the Air National Guard was also created by the 
     National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) and 
     has played a vital role in guarding the United States and 
     defending freedom in nearly every major conflict and 
     contingency since its creation;
        Whereas, on October 14, 1947, the USAF demonstrated the 
     historic and ongoing commitment of the USAF to technological 
     innovation when Captain Charles ``Chuck'' Yeager piloted the 
     X-1 developmental rocket plane to a speed of Mach 1.06, 
     becoming the first flyer to break the sound barrier in a 
     powered aircraft in level flight;
       Whereas the Air Force Reserve, created on April 14, 1948, 
     is comprised of citizen airmen who serve as unrivaled wingmen 
     of the active duty USAF during every deployment and on every 
     mission and battlefield around the world in which the USAF is 
     engaged;
       Whereas the USAF carried out the Berlin Airlift in 1948 and 
     1949 to provide humanitarian relief to post-war Germany and 
     has established a tradition of offering humanitarian 
     assistance when responding to natural disasters and needs 
     across the world;
       Whereas the Tuskegee Airmen served the United States with 
     tremendous dignity and honor, overcame segregation and 
     prejudice to become one of the most highly respected fighter 
     groups of World War II, and helped to establish a policy of 
     racial integration within the ranks of the USAF, as, on April 
     26, 1948, the USAF became the first military branch to 
     announce a policy of racial integration, a full 3 months 
     before an executive order integrated all military services;
       Whereas, in the early years of the Cold War, the arsenal of 
     bombers of the USAF, such as the long-range Convair B-58 
     Hustler and B-36 Peacemaker, and the Boeing B-47 Stratojet 
     and B-52 Stratofortress, served as the preeminent deterrent 
     of the United States against the forces of the Soviet Union 
     and were later augmented by the development and deployment of 
     medium range and intercontinental ballistic missiles, such as 
     the Titan and Minuteman, developed by General Bernard A. 
     Schriever;
       Whereas, on April 1, 1954, President Dwight D. Eisenhower 
     signed legislation establishing the United States Air Force 
     Academy, the mission of which is to educate, develop, and 
     inspire men and women to become aerospace officers and 
     leaders of impeccable character and knowledge, and which, as 
     of 2022, has graduated 64 classes and commissioned 53,491 
     officers into the USAF and United States Space Force 
     (referred to in this preamble as the ``USSF'');
       Whereas, during the Korean War, the USAF employed the first 
     large-scale combat use of jet aircraft, helped to establish 
     air superiority over the Korean Peninsula, protected ground 
     forces of the United Nations with close air support, and 
     interdicted enemy reinforcements and supplies;
       Whereas, during the Vietnam War, the USAF engaged in a 
     limited campaign of airpower to assist the South Vietnamese 
     government in countering the communist Viet Cong guerillas 
     and fought to disrupt supply lines, halt enemy ground 
     offensives, and protect United States and Allied forces;
       Whereas, on April 3, 1967, former prisoner of war Paul W. 
     Airey, a career radio operator, aerial gunner, and First 
     Sergeant, became the first Chief Master Sergeant of the USAF;
       Whereas, in recent decades, the USAF and coalition partners 
     of the United States have supported successful actions in 
     Grenada, Panama, Iraq, Kuwait, Somalia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, 
     Haiti, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, and many other 
     locations around the world;
       Whereas USAF Special Operations Command has served with 
     honor and distinction around the world since its activation 
     in 1990, providing the United States with specialized 
     airpower across the broad spectrum of conflicts in any place 
     and at any time;
       Whereas, for over 3 decades beginning in 1990, airmen 
     engaged in continuous combat operations from Operation Desert 
     Shield to Operation Inherent Resolve, demonstrating an air 
     and space expeditionary force of outstanding capability that 
     is ready to fight and win wars and deter aggression whenever 
     and wherever called upon;
       Whereas, when terrorists attacked the United States on 
     September 11, 2001, fighter and air refueling aircraft of the 
     USAF took to the skies to fly combat air patrols over major 
     cities of the United States and protect the people of the 
     United States from further attack;
       Whereas, on December 20, 2019, in recognition that space 
     had become a warfighting domain, former President Donald 
     Trump signed legislation establishing the USSF as an 
     independent service to ensure that the space domain remained 
     open to all countries;
       Whereas, on May 30, 2020, in collaboration and engagement 
     with interagency and commercial partners, the USSF provided 
     unparalleled space launch capabilities in support of the 
     first manned spaceflight from American soil in 9 years;
       Whereas, in 2021, in a step toward organizing the forces of 
     the USSF to meet the needs of an independent military service 
     devoted to space, the USSF activated Space

[[Page S4864]]

     Operations Command, Space Systems Command, and Space Training 
     and Readiness Command;
       Whereas, to establish a unique and enduring culture for the 
     USSF, the Department of the Air Force redesignated certain 
     Air Force Bases and Air Force Stations supporting the USSF 
     mission as Space Force Bases and Space Force Stations and 
     graduated its first-ever basic military training course 
     taught completely by USSF training instructors;
       Whereas space capabilities provide the foundation for 
     everything the United States Armed Forces do, from 
     humanitarian efforts to combat operations;
       Whereas, in 2022, following a `wings of hope and 
     compassion' tradition dating back more than a century, when 
     airmen provided food and supplies to Texas flood victims in 
     1919, the USAF and coalition partners airlifted 124,334 
     people out of Afghanistan in the largest non-combatant 
     evacuation airlift in United States history, spanning 17 
     days, 9 countries, 8 time zones, and more than 10 temporary 
     safe havens;
       Whereas, since February 24, 2022, airmen and guardians have 
     responded to Russian aggression against Ukraine by guarding 
     the skies of members of the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization (commonly referred to as ``NATO''), transporting 
     essential equipment to the Ukrainian military, and providing 
     critical support from space;
       Whereas women have played a prominent role in the evolution 
     of the Department of the Air Force, courageously fighting 
     alongside their male counterparts and dedicating their lives 
     to protecting peace, liberty, and freedom around the world as 
     they provide air and space power whenever and wherever 
     needed;
       Whereas the Department of the Air Force has made tremendous 
     strides in the global warfighting domain of cyberspace by 
     revolutionizing offensive and defensive capabilities and 
     effects with speed, agility, and surgical precision, thereby 
     ensuring the continuous command, control, and execution of 
     operations in contested, degraded, and limited environments;
       Whereas the Civil Air Patrol, as a Total Force partner and 
     auxiliary of the USAF, has maintained a steadfast commitment 
     to the United States and the communities of the United States 
     through a proud legacy of service, from the earliest days of 
     World War II, when the Civil Air Patrol protected the 
     shorelines of the United States, through 2022, as the Civil 
     Air Patrol executes emergency service missions and aerospace 
     education programs;
       Whereas the Department of the Air Force is steadfast in the 
     commitment to fielding a world-class air and space 
     expeditionary force by recruiting, training, and educating 
     its officer, enlisted, and civilian corps comprising the 
     active duty, Guard, and Reserve components of the Total 
     Force;
       Whereas airmen were imprisoned and tortured during several 
     major conflicts, including World War I, World War II, the 
     Vietnam War, the Korean War, and the Persian Gulf War, and, 
     in the valiant tradition of airmen held captive, continued 
     serving the United States with honor and dignity under the 
     most inhumane circumstances;
       Whereas airmen have earned the Medal of Honor 19 times, the 
     Air Force Cross 203 times, the Distinguished Service Cross 42 
     times, and, since September 11, 2001, the Silver Star 92 
     times;
       Whereas the USAF and the USSF are tremendous stewards of 
     resources in developing and applying groundbreaking 
     technology to manage complex acquisition programs for all air 
     and space weapon systems throughout their life cycles;
       Whereas talented and dedicated airmen and guardians will 
     continue to make the investments necessary to accelerate 
     transformation and modernization to counter the adversaries 
     of the United States and meet the future challenges of an 
     ever-changing world with limitless strength, resolve, and 
     patriotism;
       Whereas the USAF and the USSF are committed to accelerating 
     change and preparing for the future, because failure is not 
     an option;
       Whereas, on every continent around the world, airmen and 
     guardians have bravely fought for freedom, liberty, and 
     peace, preserved democracy, and protected the people and 
     interests of the United States;
       Whereas the future success of the United States Armed 
     Forces depends upon the ability to control the air and space 
     domains;
       Whereas airmen and guardians will continue to be a 
     tremendous resource for the United States in fights across 
     every domain and at every location, thereby ensuring the 
     safety and security of the United States; and
       Whereas, for 75 years, the airmen and guardians of the 
     Department of the Air Force, through their exemplary service 
     and sacrifice, have repeatedly proven their value to the 
     United States, the people of the United States, the allies of 
     the United States, and all free people of the world: Now, 
     therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) commemorates the 75th anniversary of the establishment 
     of the Department of the Air Force; and
       (2) remembers, honors, and commends the achievements of the 
     United States Air Force and the United States Space Force in 
     serving and defending the United States.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 144 (Thursday, September 8, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4517-S4518]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   SENATE RESOLUTION 756--COMMEMORATING THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE 
 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE AND CELEBRATING THE 
   UNITED STATES AIR FORCE FOR 75 YEARS OF SERVING AND DEFENDING THE 
                             UNITED STATES

  Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Hoeven, and Mr. Brown) 
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee 
on Armed Services:

                              S. Res. 756

       Whereas, on August 1, 1907, the Aeronautical Division of 
     the Army Signal Corps, consisting of 1 officer and 2 enlisted 
     men, began operation under the command of Captain Charles 
     deForest Chandler with the responsibility for ``all matters 
     pertaining to military ballooning, air machines, and all 
     kindred subjects'';
       Whereas, in 1908, the Department of War contracted with the 
     Wright brothers to build 1 heavier-than-air flying machine 
     for the Army and, in 1909, the Department of War accepted the 
     Wright Military Flyer, the first military airplane in the 
     world;
       Whereas pilots of the United States, flying with both 
     Allied air forces and with the Army Air Service, performed 
     admirably during the course of World War I, the first air war 
     in history, by participating in pursuit, observation, and day 
     and night bombing missions;
       Whereas pioneering aviators of the United States, including 
     Mason M. Patrick, William ``Billy'' Mitchell, Benjamin D. 
     Foulois, Frank M. Andrews, Henry H. ``Hap'' Arnold, James H. 
     ``Jimmy'' Doolittle, and Edward ``Eddie'' Rickenbacker, were 
     among the first individuals to recognize the military 
     potential of airpower and, in the decades following World War 
     I, courageously laid the foundation for the creation of an 
     independent arm for the air forces of the United States;
       Whereas General Henry H. ``Hap'' Arnold drew upon the 
     industrial prowess and human resources of the United States 
     to transform the Army Air Corps from a force of 22,400 men 
     and 2,402 aircraft in 1939, into an entity with a peak 
     wartime strength of 2,400,000 personnel and 79,908 aircraft;
       Whereas, on June 20, 1941, the Department of War 
     established the Army Air Forces as the aviation element of 
     that Department and, shortly thereafter, the Department made 
     the Army Air Forces co-equal to the Army Ground Forces;
       Whereas the standard for courage, flexibility, and 
     intrepidity in combat was established for all airmen during 
     the first aerial raid in the Pacific Theater on April 18, 
     1942, when Lieutenant Colonel James ``Jimmy'' H. Doolittle 
     led 16 North American B-25 Mitchell bombers in a joint 
     operation from the deck of the USS Hornet to strike the 
     Japanese mainland in response to the Japanese attack on Pearl 
     Harbor;
       Whereas the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 
     et seq.), signed into law by President Harry S. Truman, 
     realigned and reorganized the Armed Forces to establish the 
     Department of the Air Force and the United States Air Force 
     (referred to in this preamble as the ``USAF'') as separate 
     from other military services;
       Whereas, on September 18, 1947, W. Stuart Symington became 
     the first Secretary of the newly formed and independent Air 
     Force, marking the date on which the USAF was established;
       Whereas the Air National Guard was also created by the 
     National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) and 
     has played a vital role in guarding the United States and 
     defending freedom in nearly every major conflict and 
     contingency since its creation;
       Whereas, on October 14, 1947, the USAF demonstrated the 
     historic and ongoing commitment of the USAF to technological 
     innovation when Captain Charles ``Chuck'' Yeager piloted the 
     X-1 developmental rocket plane to a speed of Mach 1.07, 
     becoming the first flyer to break the sound barrier in a 
     powered aircraft in level flight;
       Whereas the Air Force Reserve, created on April 14, 1948, 
     is comprised of citizen airmen who serve as unrivaled wingmen 
     of the active duty USAF during every deployment and on every 
     mission and battlefield around the world in which the USAF is 
     engaged;
       Whereas the USAF carried out the Berlin Airlift in 1948 and 
     1949 to provide humanitarian relief to post-war Germany and 
     has established a tradition of offering humanitarian 
     assistance when responding to natural disasters and needs 
     across the world;
       Whereas the Tuskegee Airmen served the United States with 
     tremendous dignity and honor, overcame segregation and 
     prejudice to become one of the most highly respected fighter 
     groups of World War II, and helped to establish a policy of 
     racial integration within the ranks of the USAF, as, on April 
     26, 1948, the USAF became the first military branch to 
     integrate, a full 3 months before an executive order 
     integrated all military services;
       Whereas, in the early years of the Cold War, the arsenal of 
     bombers of the USAF, such as the long-range Convair B-58 
     Hustler and B-36 Peacemaker, and the Boeing B-47 Stratojet 
     and B-52 Stratofortress, served as the preeminent deterrent 
     of the United States against the forces of the Soviet Union 
     and were later augmented by the development and deployment of 
     medium range and intercontinental ballistic missiles, such as 
     the Titan and Minuteman, developed by General Bernard A. 
     Schriever;
       Whereas, on April 1, 1954, President Dwight D. Eisenhower 
     signed legislation establishing the United States Air Force 
     Academy, the mission of which is to educate, develop, and 
     inspire men and women to become aerospace officers and 
     leaders of impeccable character and knowledge, and which, as 
     of 2022, has graduated 64 classes and commissioned 53,491 
     officers into the USAF and United States Space Force 
     (referred to in this preamble as the ``USSF'');
       Whereas, during the Korean War, the USAF employed the first 
     large-scale combat use of jet aircraft, helped to establish 
     air superiority over the Korean Peninsula, protected ground 
     forces of the United Nations with close air support, and 
     interdicted enemy reinforcements and supplies;
       Whereas, during the Vietnam War, the USAF engaged in a 
     limited campaign of airpower to assist the South Vietnamese 
     government in countering the communist Viet Cong guerillas 
     and fought to disrupt supply lines, halt enemy ground 
     offensives, and protect United States and Allied forces;
       Whereas, on April 3, 1967, former prisoner of war Paul W. 
     Airey, a career radio operator, aerial gunner, and First 
     Sergeant, became the first Chief Master Sergeant of the USAF;
       Whereas, in recent decades, the USAF and coalition partners 
     of the United States have supported successful actions in 
     Grenada, Panama, Iraq, Kuwait, Somalia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, 
     Haiti, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, and many other 
     locations around the world;
       Whereas USAF Special Operations Forces have served with 
     honor and distinction around the world since their activation 
     in 1990, providing the United States with specialized 
     airpower across the broad spectrum of conflicts in any place 
     and at any time;
       Whereas, for over 3 decades beginning in 1990, airmen 
     engaged in continuous combat operations from Operation Desert 
     Shield to Operation Inherent Resolve, demonstrating an air 
     and space expeditionary force of outstanding capability that 
     is ready to fight and win wars and deter aggression whenever 
     and wherever called upon;
       Whereas, when terrorists attacked the United States on 
     September 11, 2001, fighter and air refueling aircraft of the 
     USAF took to the skies to fly combat air patrols over major 
     cities of the United States and protect the people of the 
     United States from further attack;
       Whereas, on December 20, 2019, in recognition that space 
     had become a warfighting domain, former President Donald 
     Trump signed legislation establishing the USSF as an 
     independent service to ensure that the space domain remained 
     open to all countries;
       Whereas, on May 30, 2020, in collaboration and engagement 
     with interagency and commercial partners, the USSF provided 
     unparalleled space launch capabilities in support of the 
     first manned spaceflight from American soil in 9 years;
       Whereas, in 2021, in a step toward organizing the forces of 
     the USSF to meet the needs of an independent military service 
     devoted to space, the USSF activated Space Operations 
     Command, Space Systems Command, and Space Training and 
     Readiness Command;
       Whereas, to establish a unique and enduring culture for the 
     USSF, the Department of the Air Force redesignated certain 
     Air Force Bases and Air Force Stations supporting the USSF 
     mission as Space Force Bases and Space Force Stations and 
     graduated its first-ever basic military training course 
     taught completely by USSF training instructors;
       Whereas space capabilities provide the foundation for 
     everything the United States

[[Page S4518]]

     Armed Forces do, from humanitarian efforts to combat 
     operations;
       Whereas, in 2022, following a `wings of hope and 
     compassion' tradition dating back more than a century, when 
     airmen provided food and supplies to Texas flood victims in 
     1919, the USAF and coalition partners airlifted 124,334 
     people out of Afghanistan in the largest humanitarian 
     evacuation operation in history, spanning 17 days, 9 
     countries, 8 time zones, and more than 10 temporary safe 
     havens;
       Whereas, since February 24, 2022, airmen and guardians have 
     responded to Russian aggression against Ukraine by guarding 
     the skies of members of the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization (commonly referred to as ``NATO''), transporting 
     essential equipment to the Ukrainian military, and providing 
     critical support from space;
       Whereas women have played a prominent role in the evolution 
     of the Department of the Air Force, courageously fighting 
     alongside their male counterparts and dedicating their lives 
     to protecting peace, liberty, and freedom around the world as 
     they provide air and space power whenever and wherever 
     needed;
       Whereas the Department of the Air Force has made tremendous 
     strides in the global warfighting domain of cyberspace by 
     revolutionizing offensive and defensive capabilities and 
     effects with speed, agility, and surgical precision, thereby 
     ensuring the continuous command, control, and execution of 
     operations in contested, degraded, and limited environments;
       Whereas the Civil Air Patrol, as a Total Force partner and 
     auxiliary of the USAF, has maintained a steadfast commitment 
     to the United States and the communities of the United States 
     through a proud legacy of service, from the earliest days of 
     World War II, when the Civil Air Patrol protected the 
     shorelines of the United States, through 2022, as the Civil 
     Air Patrol executes emergency service missions and aerospace 
     education programs;
       Whereas the Department of the Air Force is steadfast in the 
     commitment to fielding a world-class air and space 
     expeditionary force by recruiting, training, and educating 
     its officer, enlisted, and civilian corps comprising the 
     active duty, Guard, and Reserve components of the Total 
     Force;
       Whereas airmen were imprisoned and tortured during several 
     major conflicts, including World War I, World War II, the 
     Vietnam War, the Korean War, and the Persian Gulf War, and, 
     in the valiant tradition of airmen held captive, continued 
     serving the United States with honor and dignity under the 
     most inhumane circumstances;
       Whereas airmen have earned the Medal of Honor 18 times, the 
     Air Force Cross 203 times, the Distinguished Service Cross 42 
     times, and, since September 11, 2001, the Silver Star 92 
     times;
       Whereas the USAF and the USSF are tremendous stewards of 
     resources in developing and applying groundbreaking 
     technology to manage complex acquisition programs for all air 
     and space weapon systems throughout their life cycles;
       Whereas talented and dedicated airmen and guardians will 
     continue to make the investments necessary to accelerate 
     transformation and modernization to counter the adversaries 
     of the United States and meet the future challenges of an 
     ever-changing world with limitless strength, resolve, and 
     patriotism;
       Whereas the USAF and the USSF are committed to accelerating 
     change and preparing for the future, because failure is not 
     an option;
       Whereas, on every continent around the world, airmen and 
     guardians have bravely fought for freedom, liberty, and 
     peace, preserved democracy, and protected the people and 
     interests of the United States;
       Whereas the future success of the United States Armed 
     Forces depends upon the ability to control the air and space 
     domains;
       Whereas airmen and guardians will continue to be a 
     tremendous resource for the United States in fights across 
     every domain and at every location, thereby ensuring the 
     safety and security of the United States; and
       Whereas, for 75 years, the airmen and guardians of the 
     Department of the Air Force, through their exemplary service 
     and sacrifice, have repeatedly proven their value to the 
     United States, the people of the United States, the allies of 
     the United States, and all free people of the world: Now, 
     therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) commemorates the 75th anniversary of the establishment 
     of the Department of the Air Force; and
       (2) remembers, honors, and commends the achievements of the 
     United States Air Force and the United States Space Force in 
     serving and defending the United States.

                          ____________________


[Senate Report 117-280]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


                                                      Calendar No. 679
117th Congress       }                                  {        Report
                                 SENATE
 2d Session          }                                  {       117-280
_______________________________________________________________________

                                     



             PRESIDENT'S CUP CYBERSECURITY COMPETITION ACT

                               __________

                              R E P O R T

                                 of the

                   COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND

                          GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

                          UNITED STATES SENATE

                              to accompany

                               H.R. 6824

           TO AUTHORIZE THE CYBERSECURITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE
             SECURITY AGENCY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
          SECURITY TO HOLD AN ANNUAL CYBERSECURITY COMPETITION
           RELATING TO OFFENSIVE AND DEFENSIVE CYBERSECURITY
                  DISCIPLINES, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES




               December 19, 2022.--Ordered to be printed
        COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

                   GARY C. PETERS, Michigan, Chairman
THOMAS R. CARPER, Delaware           ROB PORTMAN, Ohio
MAGGIE HASSAN, New Hampshire         RON JOHNSON, Wisconsin
KYRSTEN SINEMA, Arizona              RAND PAUL, Kentucky
JACKY ROSEN, Nevada                  JAMES LANKFORD, Oklahoma
ALEX PADILLA, California             MITT ROMNEY, Utah
JON OSSOFF, Georgia                  RICK SCOTT, Florida
                                     JOSH HAWLEY, Missouri

                   David M. Weinberg, Staff Director
                    Zachary I. Schram, Chief Counsel
         Christopher J. Mulkins, Director of Homeland Security
         Jeffrey D. Rothblum, Senior Professional Staff Member
                Pamela Thiessen, Minority Staff Director
            Sam J. Mulopulos, Minority Deputy Staff Director
              William H.W. McKenna, Minority Chief Counsel
                     Laura W. Kilbride, Chief Clerk


















                                                      Calendar No. 679
117th Congress       }                                  {        Report
                                 SENATE
 2d Session          }                                  {       117-280

======================================================================



 
             PRESIDENT'S CUP CYBERSECURITY COMPETITION ACT

                                _______
                                

               December 19, 2022.--Ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

 Mr. Peters, from the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
                    Affairs, submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                        [To accompany H.R. 6824]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs, to which was referred the bill (H.R. 6824) to 
authorize the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency 
of the Department of Homeland Security to hold an annual 
cybersecurity competition relating to offensive and defensive 
cybersecurity disciplines, and for other purposes, having 
considered the same, reports favorably thereon with an 
amendment, in the nature of a substitute, and recommends that 
the bill, as amended, do pass.

                                CONTENTS

                                                                     Page
  I. Purpose and Summary..............................................  1
 II. Background and Need for the Legislation..........................  2
III. Legislative History..............................................  2
 IV. Section-by-Section Analysis of the Bill, as Reported.............  3
  V. Evaluation of Regulatory Impact..................................  4
 VI. Congressional Budget Office Cost Estimate........................  4
VII. Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported............  5

                         I. PURPOSE AND SUMMARY

    H.R. 6824, the President's Cup Cybersecurity Competition 
Act, authorizes the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security 
Agency (CISA) to carry out an annual cybersecurity competition 
for Federal civilian employees and members of the armed forces. 
This competition was created by Executive Order No. 13870 in 
2019, and the President's Cup Cybersecurity Competition 
(President's Cup), with the goal to ``identify, challenge, and 
reward the United States Government's best cybersecurity 
practitioners and teams across offensive and defensive 
cybersecurity disciplines.''\1\ This bill grants CISA the 
necessary authorities to fully implement the competition, 
including by authorizing CISA to make specified expenditures to 
run the competition, and to directly provide cash prizes to the 
winning individuals and teams regardless of where they work in 
the Federal Government.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1 \President Donald Trump, Executive Order 13870: America's 
Cybersecurity Workforce (May 2, 2019) (https://www.federalregister.gov/
documents/2019/05/09/2019-09750/americas-cybersecurity-workforce).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

              II. BACKGROUND AND NEED FOR THE LEGISLATION

    CISA launched the first President's Cup in 2019 as part of 
its effort to ``identify, challenge, and reward the best 
cybersecurity talent'' in the Federal workforce.\2\ The three-
round competition involves both individual and team challenges 
focusing on areas across the National Initiative for 
Cybersecurity Education Cybersecurity Workforce Framework.\3\ 
The 2021 competition was broken down into three categories: (a) 
incident response and forensic analysis (team); (b) incident 
response and forensic analysis (individual); and (c) 
exploitation analysis and vulnerability assessment 
(individual).\4\ Members of both the military and civilian 
federal workforce are eligible to participate in the 
competition.\5\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \2\Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, CISA 
President's Cup 2020 (accessed Nov. 4, 2022) (https://www.cisa.gov/
publication/cisa-presidents-cup-2020).
    \3\Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, President's 
Cup Cybersecurity Competition (accessed Nov. 4, 2022) (https://
www.cisa.gov/presidentscup); National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, Workforce Framework for Cybersecurity (NICE Framework) 
(NIST Special Publication 800-181, Revision 1) (Nov. 2020) (https://
doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-181r1).
    \4\Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, CISA to Host 
Third Annual President's Cup Cybersecurity Competition (Aug. 30, 2021) 
(https://www.cisa.gov/news/2021/08/30/cisa-host-third-annual-
presidents-cup-cybersecurity-competition).
    \5\Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, President's 
Cup Cybersecurity Competition (accessed Nov. 4, 2022) (https://
www.cisa.gov/presidentscup).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Enthusiasm for the President's Cup has grown since the 
competition was first launched. Over 1,000 individuals and 200 
teams participated in the first year of the competition in 
2019. Participation grew to over 1,400 individuals and nearly 
250 teams in 2020, and, in 2021, nearly 2,000 federal employees 
competed.\6\ Despite this enthusiasm, lack of a formal 
authorization has prevented the program from achieving a 
critical objective rewarding the best cyber talent within the 
Federal Government. Notably, under current law and the 
program's establishment in Executive Order No. 13870, the 
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) lacks the authority to 
provide cash prizes or an award ceremony to Federal workers who 
are employed outside of the Department. As such, CISA, as a 
component agency within DHS, can only encourage other Federal 
departments and agencies to provide rewards, or otherwise 
recognize, their employees who participate in and place in the 
competition.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \6\Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    H.R. 6824 will specifically authorize the President's Cup 
Cybersecurity Competition in law in a manner that provides CISA 
with needed authority to award cash prizes and host ceremonies 
for the winners, rewarding their demonstrated cybersecurity 
skills, which in turn can serve as an important retention tool.

                        III. LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

    Representative Luria (D-VA-2) introduced H.R. 6824, the 
President's Cup Cybersecurity Competition Act, on February 25, 
2022, with Representative Connolly (D-VA-11). The bill was 
referred to the House Committee on Homeland Security. 
Representative Garbarino (R-NY-2) joined the bill as a 
cosponsor on March 1, 2022. On March 2, 2022, the bill was 
marked up by the House Committee on Homeland Security favorably 
by a recorded vote of 33-0. On May 16, 2022, the House of 
Representatives passed the bill under a suspension of the rules 
by a vote of 386 to 31. The bill was referred to the Senate 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
    The Committee considered H.R. 6824 at a business meeting on 
September 28, 2022. During the business meeting, Senators 
Portman (R-OH) and Peters (D-MI) offered a modified substitute 
amendment that struck a provision pertaining to consultation on 
the design of the competition. The substitute amendment also 
clarified provisions regarding how funds for the competition 
are allowed to be spent, including an overall yearly award 
limit of $100,000. The Portman-Peters substitute amendment, as 
modified, was adopted by voice vote en bloc with Senators 
Peters, Carper, Hassan, Sinema, Rosen, Padilla, Ossoff, 
Portman, Johnson, Paul, Lankford, Romney, Scott, and Hawley 
present for the vote. The Committee ordered the bill, as 
amended, to be favorably reported by voice vote en bloc. 
Senators present for the vote were: Peters, Carper, Hassan, 
Sinema, Rosen, Padilla, Ossoff, Portman, Johnson, Paul, 
Lankford, Romney, Scott, and Hawley.
    Consistent with Committee Rule 3(G), the Committee reports 
the bill with a technical amendment by mutual agreement of the 
Chairman and Ranking Member.

        IV. SECTION-BY-SECTION ANALYSIS OF THE BILL, AS REPORTED

Section. 1. Short title

    This section states that the Act may be cited as the 
``President's Cup Cybersecurity Competition Act''.

Section. 2. President's Cup cybersecurity competition

    Subsection (a) directs CISA to hold an annual cybersecurity 
competition of cybersecurity practitioners from across the 
Federal Government.
    Subsection (b) establishes that an individual must be a 
Federal civilian employee or member of the uniformed services 
to be eligible for the competition.
    Subsection (c) authorizes CISA to enter into a grant, 
contract, cooperative agreement, or other agreement to 
administer the competition.
    Subsection (d) directs that the competition shall include 
cybersecurity skills outlined in the National Initiative for 
Cybersecurity Education Framework, individual or team events, 
categories demonstrating offensive and defensive cyber 
operations, and other related elements identified by CISA.
    Subsection (e) authorizes CISA to use appropriated funds or 
funds provided by other Federal agencies for specified expenses 
in order to carry out the competition. Specified expenses 
include advertising, marketing, and promoting the competition; 
meals for participants and organizers; promotional items; 
necessary expenses for honorary recognition of competition 
participants; and monetary and nonmonetary awards for 
participants.
    Subsection (f) authorizes CISA to provide awards up to 
$10,000 in value per award and DHS to provide awards up to 
$25,000 in value per award. It additionally establishes that 
any monetary award shall be in addition to the regular pay of 
the recipient and establishes an annual limit of $100,000 for 
the total value of awards provided by the competition.
    Subsection (g) directs CISA to provide an annual report to 
the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs and the House Committee on Homeland Security that 
provides a description of funds used for each competition, a 
description of expenditures of awards for each competition, 
information relating to participation of each competition, and 
information relating to lessons learned from each competition.

                   V. EVALUATION OF REGULATORY IMPACT

    Pursuant to the requirements of paragraph 11(b) of rule 
XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee has 
considered the regulatory impact of this bill and determined 
that the bill will have no regulatory impact within the meaning 
of the rules. The Committee agrees with the Congressional 
Budget Office's statement that the bill contains no 
intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the 
Unfunded Mandates Reform Act (UMRA) and would impose no costs 
on state, local, or tribal governments.

             VI. CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE COST ESTIMATE

                                     U.S. Congress,
                               Congressional Budget Office,
                                  Washington, DC, October 17, 2022.
Hon. Gary C. Peters,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, U.S. 
        Senate, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 6824, the 
President's Cup Cybersecurity Competition Act.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Aldo 
Prosperi.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.

    
    

    H.R. 6824 would authorize the Cybersecurity and 
Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) to conduct an awards 
competition for the federal cybersecurity workforce. Under the 
bill, CISA would award financial prizes to federal employees 
who apply technical skills to solve real-world cybersecurity 
scenarios. The bill also would require CISA to report to the 
Congress on the effectiveness of the competition.
    CISA is already operating the President's Cup Cybersecurity 
Competition that would be required by H.R. 6824; thus, the bill 
would not impose any new requirements on the agency. CBO 
estimates that preparing and delivering the reports required by 
H.R. 6824 would cost less than $500,000 over the 2023-2027 
period; such spending would be subject to the availability of 
appropriated funds.
    On April 27, 2022, CBO transmitted a cost estimate for H.R. 
6824, the President's Cup Cybersecurity Competition Act, as 
ordered reported by the House Committee on Homeland Security on 
March 2, 2022. The two bills are similar, and CBO's estimates 
of their costs are the same.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Aldo Prosperi. 
The estimate was reviewed by Leo Lex, Deputy Director of 
Budget.

       VII. CHANGES IN EXISTING LAW MADE BY THE BILL, AS REPORTED

    This legislation would make no change in existing law, 
within the meaning of clauses (a) and (b) of subparagraph 12 of 
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, because this 
legislation would not repeal or amend any provision of current 
law.

                                  [all]
Administration of Joseph R. Biden, Jr., 2022



Remarks at a Democratic National Committee Rally
September 23, 2022



The President. Well, I tell you what, I think I like this crowd. [Applause] Talk about being home and the fact you've got the president of the union standing out there with other unionsI'll tell you what, man. I was going to say, if you have a seat, take one, but you don't have any seats. [Laughter]

Look, Dajsha, that wasthat was a greatshe's pretty good for someone in the last year in college, you know? Dajsha, just remember me. When you're President and they say, "Joe Biden is in the outer office," promise you won't say, "Joe who?" when I come in. [Laughter]

[At this point, the President addressed audience members positioned above the dais.]

Hey, folks, how are you all? I'm going to talk about more than just the NEA today because and I want toI've told your president I want to come back and just talk pure education as well. But I want to talk a littlemuch broader. And, Becky, thanks for hosting us. I appreciate it very much.

Forty-six days to the midterms. We need to be crystal clear about what we'rewhat's on the ballot, because there's a heck of a lot at stake that's on the ballot. Right nowright nowon the ballot, there's Social Security. It's on the ballot. You all have paid every singleand of every paycheck you got, you paid into it

[The President's microphone malfunctioned. He tapped it on the podium to restore proper functioning and continued his remarks as follows.]

you paid into. Holy mackerel. [Laughter]

Audience member. All right!

The President. Anyway, but there's a lot reallytruly, there's a lot on the ballot. There's this ismy dad used to have an expression. He'd say: "Joey, don't compare me to the Almighty. Compare me to the alternative." [Laughter] And we have a real alternative here thatthis is not athis is not going to be an election that isn't of significant consequence.

Gun safety for our kids and gun violence are on the ballot. The idea that you start school this year and kids in many parts of the country learn how to duck and cover rather thanno, I'm serious; think about itrather than talking about reading, writing, and arithmetic is a very different circumstance. It's not right. It's not who we are. It's not who we should be.

And, folks, look, the of survival our planet is on the ballot. And that sounds like hyperbole, but it genuinely is.

Audience member. We need EPA!

The President. Well, I tell you what, the thing that we found out and everybody found out: There's not a lot of total climate deniers anymore after they've seen what happened this year. But guess what? We've got a lot to do.

[The President addressed an audience member as follows.]

You've got to say hi to me. [Laughter] We go back a long way. She was 12; I was 30. But anyway[laughter]this woman helped me get an awful lot done. Anyway.

But right nowand it's not hyperbole to suggest right now democracy itself is on the ballot as well. Folks, I believe America is at an inflection point. And I apologize toI'm a labor guy. I've spent a lot of time with all of younot all of you, but with labor movementssince I got elected and my whole career. Butand I apologize if I repeat some things.

But I think we're really at an inflection point. It occurs every three, four, five generations. It doesn't occur every election. And by "inflection point," I mean that these momentsthese are going to determine the shape of everything that's going to come after, what we do now. What we do in the next several years is going to determine what this country looks like in 25 and 30 years. It's that consequential.

Now, 46 days to choose46 days. And the path offered by Democrats is contrasted with the one offered by the MAGA Republicans. And by the way, not all Republicans are MAGA Republicans.

Audience members. That's right!

The President. So I want to make that clear. And for years and years, I had a reputationI remember I got beat up in the campaign by saying that I wanted to unify the country and unify the parties. You used to be able to do that. But things have changed a whole bunch.

The MAGA Republicans control the Republican Party right now, and that's self-evident.

That's self-evident. So there's a lot at stake here. And I'm going to talk a little bit about that right now.

Earlier today, after opposing and obstructing everything we tried to do to stop progress for the last 2 years, the House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy went to Pennsylvania and unveiled what he calls a "Commitment to America." That's a thin series of policy goals, with little or no detail, that he says Republicans are going to pursue if they regain control of the Congress.

In the course of nearly an hour, here's a few of the things we didn't hear. We didn't hear him mention the right to choose. We didn't hear him mention Medicare. We didn't hear him mention Social Security.

So let's take a look at what Kevin said today. He said Republicans want to, quote, "preserve our constitutional freedom." That sounds great. I'm for doing that as well; we all are. But look at what they've actually done.

The MAGA Republicans just cheered and embraced the first Supreme Court decision in our entire historythe first one in our entire historythat just didn't fail to preserve a constitutional freedom, it actually took away a fundamental right that had been granted by the same Court to so many Americans: the constitutional right to choose. And now nearly half the States in the United States of America have either passed a ban on abortion or will shortly. And in many States, abortion is already banned even in cases of rape and incest, a fundamental change.

Already, 166 House Republicans have signed on to a bill that would ban abortion nationwide. And the senior Senator from South Carolina, Lindsey Graham, has proposed a national ban on abortion with criminal penalties put on doctors and put them in jail if they, in fact, violate the ban.

So, in 46 days, America is going to choose: If Republicans win control of the Congress, abortion will be banned. And by the way, it will be initially banned, but if they win Congress, I will veto it.

But think what's happening. They're banning in the case ofin the case of rape and incest in many States. No exceptions. And they're going to bethey're trying to criminalize it nationwide.

But if you give me two more Democratic Senators in the United States Senate, I promise youI promise youwe're going to codify Roe. We'll once again make Roe the law of the land. And we'll once again protect a woman's right to choose.

And the power to get this done is in the hands of the American people, especially the women of America.

Audience member. Thank you!

The President. Andno, no, it really is. Justice Alito said that women can decide the outcome of this electionparaphrasing some quote in the actual decision. Well, he ain't seen nothing yet. I don't believe that MAGA Republicans have a clue about the power of American women. Let me tell you something: They're about to find out.

And, folks, Kevin McCarthy also talked about, quote, "longer, healthier lives for Americans." Again, it sounds great. Who's not for that? Well, just look at what the Republicans are doing. Already, 158 House Republicans have signed on to a Republican budget that will cut Medicare and Social Securityalready.

Audience members. Boo!

The President. The man in charge of electing Republicans in the U.S. Senate, Senator Rick Scott of Florida, has proposed a plan to put Social Security on the chopping block every 5 years. De novo.

Audience members. Boo!

The President. No, I'm notI know this sounds likebut I really mean it. Look, go on the internet, and check it out. They've laid out the platform. It means every 5 years, according toif they succeed in the Senatethe Congress will vote to either cut, reduce, or completely eliminate Social Security, or bring it back exactly as it is. What do you think the prospects of it coming back exactly as it is?

You've been paying into Social Security ever since you got your first paycheck. Well, then there's Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin.

Audience members. Boo!

The President. As my mother would say, "God bless his soul." [Laughter]

Look, he thinks waiting 5 years is too long. He wants to putno, he wants to put Social Security on the chopping block every single year. If Congress doesn't vote to keep it, it goes away. An affirmative requirement to vote to keep it. Now, think of that. It's not just Social Security he wants to put up; he wants Medicare, Medicaid benefits, every Federal budget, every federal benefit gets up and has to be voted on every year. De novo. Just from thefrom scratch.

So, in 46 days, America is going to face a choice. If Republicans control the Congress, Social Security will be on the chopping block. But if you support the DemocratsI promise you thisSocial Security will be protected. Period. And I won't let any MAGA Republican take it away.

Leader McCarthy talked about waitingwanting a nation that's safe. Well, let's look at what Republicans have done to make it safe. They voted against virtually everything we've done to reduce crime and keep communities safe.

The American Rescue Plan, it was thewhen we first got into office, we passed it. You know what it was designed to do? An awful lot of mayors and Governors and county executives, they don't havethey didn't have the tax base, because I was left with an economy that was in distress.

So we said: "Here you go. We're going to give you this money so you can make sure you can keep your schools open, you can make sure you keep police departments open, make sure you keep your hospitals open, make sure you keep the fire departments open." And guess what? Every single Republican in the Congress voted against that. Every single Republican voted against it.

Now, look, we're in a situation where now the MAGA Republicans are calling for defunding. They'rethey're defundingdefunding the FBI. Now, let me tell you something: I don't thinkand I know some of you weren't happy with meI didn't think we should defund the police; I never believed that and said so at the time. But I sure in hell don't think we should be defunding the FBI either.

And then there's thethen there's the day we'll never forget, on January 6. What happened on the 6th? Law enforcement was attacked, assaulted, brutalized, and stomped on, and later, several died. Some lost their lives because of that day. The MAGA Republicans didn't side with law enforcement; they sided with the insurrectionists. And they still do. Don't tell me you support law enforcement if you can't condemn what happened on January the 6th. Don't tell me that.

You can'tyou can't be prolaw enforcement and pro-insurrection. You can't claim to be a party of law and order and call the people who attacked the police on January 6 "patriots." That's what they're called.

And you can't claim to be for a safe America if you take orders from the NRA. Look, we just passed the most meaningful gun safety law in 30 years in this country, but most Republicans voted against it. Some, thank God, joined us, and we passed it, and sidedbut most sided with the NRA.

After Buffalo, Uvalde, Newtown, El Paso, Parkland, Charleston, Las Vegas, OrlandoI went to every one of those places. I spent hours and hours and hours with those familiesnot a joke. Not a joke. Hours with them. I know what it's like, under different circumstances, to lose children. But lose children like they lost their children? Enough. We've had enough. It's time to pass the assault weapons ban.

Look, I support the Second Amendment. I have two shotguns, and I'm notIthe only thing I really do is really target practice. I haven't done that in a long time. [Laughter] But here's the thing: There's no justification for a weapon of war. None. The speed of that bullet is five times that that comes out of the muzzle of most weapons. It can penetrate your vests.

And by the way, as I pointed out when I wasgot a pass the first time as a Senatorin Delaware, we're a big gun-owning State. A lot of duck hunters, a lot of hunters. And I'd be goingand I literally went up and down the streams campaigning and going to the people who were partwho belonged to the NRA and others. And I'd say, "How many deer out here are wearing Kevlar vests?" [Laughter] You know?

No, but I'mseriously, think about it. What in God's name do you need an assault weapon for? It's an assault weapon designed to kill people, to defend America, to defend people. But, folks, look, it's justwe're justit's way out of hand. I've taken on the RNA [NRA; White House correction.] and I beat them before, and I plan on doing it again.

And, folks, we can do it again. Our childrenour childrenshould be in a situation of learning how, as I said, to read and write, not duck and cover. So, in 46 days, if you want a safer America, America faces a choice. Republicans will once again side with the NRA and put American families and children at risk. And, I mean, some Democrats as well, and there are some Republicans who support us. It's not down the line, but it's thepart of their platform. Democrats will ban assault weapons once and for all, God willing.

Kevin McCarthy also talks about their being for a strong economy. But look what the Republicans have done. When I came to office, the economy was flat on its back. Millions out of work. Food lines that stretchedremember seeing all those food lines? People in nice-looking automobiles waiting for an hour, hour and a half just to have a bucket ofa box of food put in their trunk. In the United States of Americain the United States of Americathat was happeningall across America.

The most anemic job performance since Herbert Hoover was in place. And that's not hyperbole; that's a fact. So we acted quickly. We passed the American Rescue Plan, which lifted this Nation from economic crisis to economic recovery. And every single Republican voted for it.

Nearly 10 million more jobs have been created since I've been President, the highest number of jobs in that period of time of any President of the United States of America. We have a 3.7- percent unemployment rate, the lowest in 50more than 50 years; a record number of new record number of new small businesses created; and over 668,000 new manufacturing jobs in America.

The American Rescue Plan helped keep teachers, police officers, firefighters, first responders on the job. It provided the money needed to get schools open. And it was a big reason we've been able to vaccinate over 220 million Americans.

More to do.

With the infrastructure law we passed, we did get some Republican help for that. Well, that infrastructure law is the most significant investment in America since President Eisenhower's Interstate Highway System.

Nowsome Republicans voted for it, and some were critical. But the truth is, there's a lot more Republicans out there taking credit for the new bridges and those[inaudible]that are collapsing than actually voted for it. I love going by, and they're, you know"And this is great thing. I voted against it, but this is a great thing." [Laughter]

But, folks, in addition to inheriting a failed MAGA Republican economy, we also confronted a global pandemic and Putin's war in Ukraine, and that's driven the global inflation we see today. That's why it's so important that we pass the Inflation Reduction Act, which I proposed from the beginning, but didn't get passed until this summer.

This law will cut costs for families, help reduce inflation at the kitchen table. The way we always measured inflationand my dad was a graceful, hard-working guy. He workedhe worked a lot, his whole life. And my dad used to sayhe used to talk about whether inflation orthe situation of a family to have breathing room is: At the end of the month, when you paid all your bills, did you have a little bit leftjust a little bit left?

So there's more than one waymore than one wayto deal with the inflation to a family: to lower the price of the things they have to deal with, because that's what folks at home think about. How much of their monthly billshow much do they have to pay for the necessities?

This law is going to give them just a little more breathing room, as my dad would say. We pay more for our prescription drugs than any nation in the world. Well, for years, so many of us for a long time, and many of the unions in hereevery one of the unions herehave been trying to fix this problem.

For years, Big Pharma has blocked us in Medicare from negotiating drug prices. But not this year. We beat Big Pharma. We finally beat them, first time. Big Pharma lost. And, folks, now

Medicare will have the power to do what so many Democrats and many Republicans in the past talked about doing: lowering prescription drug prices. They pay billions of dollars. They can negotiate lower prices like other countries do.

And the seniorswe passed a law saying: Beginning in January, no senior, no matter what the cost of prescription drugscancer drugs, whatever drugs they have; and some of them can be

$60-, $70-, $80,000 a yearno senior will have to pay, no matter what the cost of their drugs, more than $2,000 a year beginning in January.

And if you're aif you're on Medicare and you have diabetes, the cost of your insulin instead of being 30 to 40 to 50 times more than the cost to make the insulin, it costs 10 bucks to make that insulin10and package it. But now you cannot charge any seniorand we should make it for everybody. They voted down the other piece. But every senior will not have to pay more than $35 a month for the cost of their insulin.

We wanted to cut the cost of insulin for everyonefor everyone, including the hundreds of thousands of children who have type 1 diabetes.

But look, folks, imagine being the parent of a child who had type 1 diabetes; you had no insurance, and you had no coverage. You have to look at that child and knowand knowthat if he or she does not have access to that insulin, it will fundamentally affect their lives in ways that are going to be damaging for the rest of their lives. Imagine the feeling.

My dad used to say: "Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck. It's about your dignity. It's about respect." And he'd always end by saying, "It's about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, 'Honey, it's going to be okay.'"

Well, guess what? The Republicans blocked limiting that cost to 35 bucks for kids. As I said, it only costs 10 bucks for that prescription that he made and packaged. Drug companies are charging families more than 30 times as much for that drug on a monthly basis. And a lot of people just can't do it.

Imagine, as I said, being that mom and dad needing that insulin. It has to beI was down in Virginia at a function. I met a mom who said they have to ration the insulin, be ableI mean, it's wrong. It's not who we are. We're going to fix that as well, I promise you.

Folks, the bottom line: This law is going to lower energy costs as well. Gas pricesI know I got criticized for going into the stockpile. But guess what? Gas prices are down $1.30 a gallon.

And in 41 States, plus the District of Columbia, the average gasoline price is less than $2.99.

Look, the law makes the biggest investment ever. We invest in climate crisis, $369 billion to deal with the climate crisis.

And it makes the Tax Code fairer. In 2020, 55 of the biggest corporations in the country paid zero dollars in Federal income taxes.

Audience members. Boo!

The President. And they made $40 billion. It's not right. So we put a stop to it by enacting a corporate minimum tax of onlybut only 15 percent. Today, the days of big, profitable corporations paying nothing in Federal income tax is over.

And guess what? Every single Republican voted against the Inflation Reduction Act. When it actually comes to actually doing something about inflation, Republicans said no. And they said, time and again, that the first chance they get, they're going to repeal the Inflation Reduction Act.

And here's what else Republicans are, in terms of their fiscal recklessness. Donald Trump and the Republicans had no problem

Audience member. Boo!

had no problem enacting, in his 4 years, a $2 trillion tax cut that overwhelmingly benefitted the top 1 percent. And they didn't pay for a penny of it. And it massively increased the Federal deficit.

Meanwhileyou know, we always say the Democrats are the big spenders? We brought down the deficit$350 billion the first year and nearly $1.5 trillion this year. And the Inflation Reduction Act is going to reduce it another $300 billion becauseover the next 10 years, because Medicare can reducecan pay less for the drugs they have to buy for the seniors.

So I don't want to hear it from Republicans. They're the ones who blew up the deficit.

They're the onesand we're the ones bringing it down.

And now, thanks to the historic deficit reduction, we can afford to cancel $10,000 in student debt and $20,000 if you have a Pell grant for tens of millions of Americans making under

$125,000. It's a gamechanger.

And Republicans are already looking for their hand-picked judges to deny relief to those hard-working Americans. They will not succeed, in my view, but that's who they're looking for.

And finally, with a straight face, Kevin McCarthy says that MAGA Republicans will restore faith in our elections. [Laughter] As we say in my faith, "Bless me, Father, for I have sinned." [Laughter] Restorerestorefaith in our elections? MAGA Republicans refuse to accept the results of the 2020 election and the will of the people.

Eighty-one million people voted Democrat for President last time. Even though they lost court case after court case after court case after court case after court case, even in front of Trump-appointed judges. And recount after recount proved the results were accurate. It's become a litmus test in their party to pledge loyalty to Donald Trump by buying into the "big lie." Now, I'm serious. You all see it onall on television.

Look, the fact is that a lot of themI've had six Republican Senators who I've known for some time come to meand I gave them my word I'd never mention names, and I never will separately, telling me that they agree with this, that, or the other thing that I was proposing, but if I voted for it, it would cost them their election because they'd lose a primary.

Well, you see what's happening. You see the MAGA Republican program being adapted by all these folks in the primary. And then once they get out of the primary, they're trying like hell to figure out how to get out from under that. [Laughter] No, no, I'm serious.

You can't let the integrity of our elections be undermined. Democracy can't survive. It cannot survive. Not a joke. It can't survive when one side believes there's only two outcomes to an election: Either they win, or they were cheated. [Laughter]

That's not democracy. And that's where the vast majority of MAGA Republicans are today. They don't understand what every patriotic American knows: You can't love your country only when you win. Only when you win.

So, folks, in just 46 days, democracy will be on the ballot. Americans will have to choose between the MAGA Republican platform who have embraced extremism and the "big lie"; Democrats, Independents, mainstream Republicans who believe in the rule of law. Rejecting [respecting; White House correction.] the will of the people and accepting the results of a fair and free election is what we're about, not what they're about.

Let me close with this. As I said earlier, my dad used to say: "Don't compare me to the Almighty. Compare me to the alternative." This November, you have to choose to be a nation of hope, unity, and optimism, or a nation of fear, division, and darkness.

I believe America will move forward to the futurea future of possibilities; a future in which we can build, dream, and hope. I know we can, because I know this nation like you do. I know the American people. I know their courage. I know their hearts. I know our history.

That's whyand I mean this from the bottom of my heart. And those of you who know me, no one ever doubts I mean what I say; the problem is, I sometimes say all that I mean. [Laughter] But all kidding aside, I've never been more optimistic. We're the only country in the world that's come out of every crisis stronger than we went into it.

It's not just about building back to what it was before. We have a chance to build back in a way to make it better for everybody. Everybody.

And I want to get back to the time when I'm debating Republicans or conservatives, heck, but believe in the institutionsbelieve in the institutions; have a fair and square fight about what we're doing; think the Court and theand the Congress and the Presidency are independent branches of government and should be treated with respect. That's what I'm looking forward to.

We've just got to remember who in God's name we are. We are the United States of America. And there's nothingthere's nothingbeyond our capacity, not a single thing we can't do when we do it together. And the way to do that is start with the unions, to do it together, together, together.

May God bless you all, and may God protect our troops.

[The President turned to face audience members standing behind him and addressed them as follows.]

And I should have started off by saying, "Excuse my back when I'm speaking." [Laughter] I apologize.

Thank you all very much. And God bless you all. Let's keep this going. Thank you.



NOTE: The President spoke at 1:07 p.m. at the National Education Association Headquarters. In his remarks, he referred to Rebecca S. Pringle, president, National Education Association; Dajsha Williams, senior, Ohio State University, who introduced the President; President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin of Russia; and Midlothian, VA, resident Shannon Davis.



Categories: Addresses and Remarks : Democratic National Committee rally. Locations: Washington, DC.

Names: Alito, Samuel A., Jr.; Davis, Shannon; Graham, Lindsey O.; Johnson, Ronald H.; McCarthy, Kevin O.; Pringle, Rebecca S.; Putin, Vladimir Vladimirovich; Scott, Richard L.; Trump, Donald J.; Williams, Dajsha.

Subjects: Budget, Federal : Deficit and national debt; Business and industry : Manufacturing industry :: Strengthening efforts; Business and industry : Small businesses, promotion efforts; Civil rights : Firearm rights; Congress : House of Representatives :: Minority leader; Democratic Party : Democratic National Committee; Diseases : Coronavirus, domestic prevention efforts; District of Columbia : Democratic Party events; District of Columbia: 2021 civil unrest and violence at U.S. Capitol; Economy, national : Inflation; Economy, national : Strengthening efforts; Education : Postsecondary education :: Federal student loans, partial forgiveness; Education : Postsecondary education :: Pell grants; Elections : 2022 congressional elections;

Elections : Voter participation; Employment and unemployment : Job creation and growth; Employment and unemployment : Unemployment rate; Energy : Gasoline, oil, and natural gas costs; Environment : Climate change; Health and medical care : Abortion; Health and medical care : Medicare and Medicaid; Health and medical care : Prescription drugs, affordability and costs; Health and medical care : Seniors, prescription drug benefits; Infrastructure, national improvement efforts; Judiciary : Judicial review; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: Associate Justice; Judiciary : Supreme Court :: U.S. Supreme Court opinion overturning 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade; Labor issues : Unions :: Education Association, National; Labor issues : Unions :: Labor movement and organized labor; Law enforcement and crime : Gun control; Law enforcement and crime : Gun violence, prevention efforts; Law enforcement and crime : Law enforcement officers, service and dedication; Republican Party : National Republican Senatorial Committee; Rifle Association, National; Russia : President; Russia : Ukraine, airstrikes and invasion; Social Security and retirement : Social Security program; Taxation : Corporate tax rates; Taxation : Tax Code, reform; Taxation : Tax relief; Ukraine : Russian airstrikes and invasion.

DCPD Number: DCPD202200827.
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 72 (Monday, May 2, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2238-S2239]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                          Biden Administration

  Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam President, well, I think, from the President's 
comments at the Correspondents' Dinner the other night, it may have 
taken a year, but, finally, the President and the White House are 
starting to realize that they have lost the American people when it 
comes to their agenda. I think it is because you can only betray 
someone so many times before they stop giving you a 2nd chance, a 3rd 
chance, or even a 15th chance at doing something.
  After 16 months of alternating between anger, confusion, and fear, 
all Tennesseans can do is just have a laugh at what the White House is 
saying and how they are trying to spin what is actually happening and 
how they are trying to tell you that what you are seeing is really not 
what you are seeing. They know--the American people know; Tennesseans 
know--that much of what you hear coming out of this administration is 
coupled with a threat; it is coupled with a falsehood; sometimes it is 
even coupled with a mandate.
  Joe Biden has lost what little control he had, but rather than 
reexamining his priorities, he has decided to cause as much pain as he 
can before the Democrats lose power. This is a pattern. The Biden 
administration doesn't lead; they mandate. They don't come to Congress 
and say: Let's do this or that; they throw out an Executive order. 
Then, when those mandates and orders that they are tossing out like 
they are candy backfire, they come about this by trying to inflict as 
much pain as they can.
  When business owners pushed back on pandemic mandates that made their 
survival impossible, this administration didn't relent; they doubled 
down. They just accused everybody who disagreed with them of being a 
danger to their communities.
  We all heard the stories: Oh, they are putting profit over people. 
Oh, they don't care about their communities. They just want to keep the 
doors open.
  But no--what they wanted to do was serve their communities.
  When parents asked questions about what their kids were learning in 
school, the Justice Department threatened to throw them in jail if they 
protested curriculum influenced by critical race theory and other 
radical ideologies. When the administration saw their climate panic 
message wasn't resonating anymore, they came out with a plan to double 
down again and take away the few transportation and energy options 
people could still afford. Their response to historic levels of 
inflation is to tax and spend the American people into submission.
  See, this is the way they do it: If you are a parent, you show up to 
ask questions about what you are seeing your child study. Then they 
want to report you and say: You are the one who is causing a problem.
  Isn't it amazing how this administration has allowed cancel culture 
to infiltrate everything that they do?
  It is their way or the highway, as we would say in Tennessee, because 
they plan to run over you; they plan to cause pain. This is not 
governing; it is punishment--punishment for your beliefs; punishment 
for your actions; punishment for standing up for the Constitution, for 
democracy, for freedom of speech. They are going to punish you.
  Now, I thought that the administration had hit rock bottom with their 
response to the recordbreaking inflation they created, but their plan 
to address Joe Biden's border crisis has been what has taken the cake. 
It is foolish, and it is dangerous.
  The situation along our southern border is bad, and it is getting 
worse. Just this weekend, I spent some time out in West Tennessee. I 
was over in Benton County, which is the northwest corner of the State, 
and talked with Sheriff Kenny Christopher. He told me that his officers 
are finding fentanyl in about 80 percent of the drugs they seize. 
Everything is laced with fentanyl. This is marijuana, heroin, gummy 
bears--everything. Fentanyl is on the loose, running wild. Between 2020 
and 2021, 64,000 people in this country died from fentanyl overdoses, 
and 2,014 of them were Tennesseans. Where is this coming from? It is 
coming right across that southern border.
  It is so important to note that this is a problem that escalated 
after Joe Biden became President. The cartels knew, with the Border 
Patrol, that Donald Trump had its back but that now, with Joe Biden, it 
is running wide open. Every town is a border town, every State a border 
State. We are losing control over the flow of drugs. The cartels are in 
control of that southern border. You don't come across without them. 
Nothing comes across without them. They are so emboldened that every 
law enforcement officer I meet with can tell you what cartel hub--that 
is right, cartel hub--here in this country, on U.S. soil, is setting up 
their drug trafficking, human trafficking, sex trafficking operations. 
Control is lost at that border.
  In March, CBP recorded more than 220,000 encounters with people 
trying to illegally enter the country. Fortunately, they were able to 
use title 42 and expel about 100,000 of those 220,000 individuals.
  Title 42 has been a lifesaver for the Border Patrol. Don't believe 
me. Go ask them. They will tell you: That is a lifesaver. They have 
used it more than 1 million times to deny entry and ease the strain on 
their limited resources. They need it. They need title 42, and they 
will tell you they need title 42.
  So, of course, the Biden administration is getting ready to take 
title 42 away. Let's just open that border up. It is endangering our 
sovereignty, endangering our people. Every town is a border town, every 
State a border State; but let's throw caution to the wind, open the 
border. Come one, come all. We had 160 different countries come across 
that border last year. Let's see if we can break that record this 
year--that is what this White House is saying, total disregard for the 
American people. Because if you take away title 42, you are going to 
see not 6,000 illegal entries a day, you are going to see 18,000 
illegal entries a day.
  They know that this is what will happen. And do they have a plan? No, 
they don't have a plan. They are expecting that 18,000 people a day. 
That works out to over a half million a month--a half million a month.
  Now, you know, Secretary Mayorkas admitted last week in his hearing 
that he just didn't seem to have a plan, but he was expecting this to 
happen.
  In Tennessee, we have 345 cities, towns, and villages--345. Out of 
those 345 cities and towns, 90 percent of those towns have a population 
of 20,000 or less; so it is the equivalent of the population of a 
typical Tennessee town coming across the southern border every day. How 
long can we sustain that?
  Your State of Illinois, Madam President, you all have about 1,200 
towns and cities that are incorporated. You have got 102 counties. Out 
of those 1,299 incorporated towns and cities, 90 percent of those, 
likewise, are 20,000 or less in population. Or if you had a half 
million a month, that is equal to a Naperville, Aurora, and Rockford 
together. How long could Illinois sustain that?
  See, this policy not only affects the border with the United States 
and Mexico and those towns and communities and counties, it is every 
county in this country.
  When Mayorkas was speaking last week over in the House, what he 
didn't do was confirm that the administration has a plan to reduce 
illegal immigration or, indeed, if they care at all about

[[Page S2239]]

securing the border. Imagine that: a Secretary of the Department of 
Homeland Security who does not believe in a secure border. You cannot 
make this stuff up. You can't make it up.
  For weeks now, a bipartisan group of Senators has pressed the 
Department of Homeland Security for their plan to secure the border, to 
secure this country. And for weeks, they have ignored our concerns.
  As of today, Chairman Durbin has no plan to summon Secretary Mayorkas 
for a hearing so we can ask him directly.
  Last week, however, things escalated during a hearing at the House 
Appropriations Committee when the Secretary confirmed that the 
administration is considering pulling staff and resources out of the 
VA-run facilities and sending them to the border.
  This is crazy. It is not part of the Department of Veterans Affairs' 
``Fourth Mission'' to help the Biden administration save face. But even 
if it was, the VA is already struggling to serve veterans.
  We are on the Veterans' Affairs Committee. Our case backlog for 
benefits, for healthcare, is over 260,000 cases. And you are going to 
take resources and medical personnel and administrative personnel and 
do what with them? Send them to the border.
  Getting basic care through the VA has become almost impossible. You 
hear it. I hear it. We all hear it from our veterans. And they know 
that these facilities are understaffed. This is why they are wanting to 
go to community care. And the Agency is experiencing a 15-year high in 
turnover for nurses.
  And what does this administration do? They say: We are going to take 
the people left working in VA healthcare and administration, we are 
going to shift them down to the border because the Border Patrol needs 
some help. Meanwhile, the people who have put on the uniform and have 
fought for this Nation can't get healthcare. And this administration 
acts like they don't give a ripping flip about any of it: the veterans, 
our Nation's sovereignty, securing the border, protecting our citizens, 
eliminating the impact of drugs that are flooding our streets. To make 
our veterans suffer, that is unconscionable.
  The administration knows that border encounters have consistently 
increased since the day they took power--they know this; they have 
watched it--and it appears that they have intentionally and 
purposefully allowed it.
  They know that as long as the border is open, that people from all 
around the globe are going to come. As I said, 160 different countries 
last year; of that, 42 known terrorist watch list individuals--42 of 
them.
  But rather than keeping title 42 in place or embracing ``Remain in 
Mexico'' or building a wall or giving the Border Patrol the resources 
they have asked for years to defend this border, this administration 
has decided the way to go about this is to let the veterans suffer. If 
they have waited 3 months, 6 months, a year, they can wait a little 
longer. That is their thought: Take the resources out of VA and send it 
to the border.
  There is nothing compassionate about this narrative. There is nothing 
caring. There is nothing right about this narrative.
  You know, it is the reason that--as the President said, he knows his 
approval rating is low. He knows there is a reason for it. He is not 
doing anything about it. He is choosing not to do anything about it. He 
is choosing not to shift his priorities.
  I will tell you, I have spent a lot of my adult life in the greatest 
creative community on the face of the Earth. We are surrounded by some 
writers and storytellers. And I would say that for some of the great 
authors and storytellers in the neighborhood, they couldn't mash 
together a plotline as convoluted as this one, because people would say 
that would never happen in the United States. You would never see us 
purposefully running up inflation or running up the cost of energy or 
opening our southern border and allowing terrorists and drug dealers 
and sex traffickers and human traffickers and gangs to run in.
  You would never knowingly allow cartels to set up shop on U.S. soil. 
You wouldn't do that. But this administration has, and they did it 
because they know pain is the point. Suffering is the point. We are 
going to do this to you.
  It goes back to what I said many weeks ago. We, as conservatives, 
have a vision for better days, for hope, for opportunity for all, for 
preserving the freedom of this great Nation, for preserving our rights, 
for protecting faith and freedom and families and hope and opportunity. 
And I fear that my Democratic colleagues, they have got an agenda. The 
agenda is what we are going to do to you in order to push a Marxist 
socialist agenda.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. JOHNSON. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

[House Hearing, 117 Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



 
                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

=======================================================================


                                HEARING

                               before the

                          SELECT COMMITTEE TO
                      INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH
                             ATTACK ON THE
                         UNITED STATES CAPITOL

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               __________

                             JULY 21, 2022

                               __________

                            Serial No. 117-9

                               __________

Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
                6th Attack on the United States Capitol
                                     



[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]


                                     

        Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov

                               __________
                               
               U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE 
49-356PDF              WASHINGTON : 2022                              
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               

 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE UNITED 
                             STATES CAPITOL

               Bennie G. Thompson, Mississippi, Chairman
                    Liz Cheney, Wyoming, Vice Chair
                        Zoe Lofgren, California
                       Adam B. Schiff, California
                        Pete Aguilar, California
                      Stephanie N. Murphy, Florida
                         Jamie Raskin, Maryland
                       Elaine G. Luria, Virginia
                        Adam Kinzinger, Illinois
                            COMMITTEE STAFF

                    David B. Buckley, Staff Director
      Kristin L. Amerling, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
               Hope Goins, Senior Counsel to the Chairman
           Joseph B. Maher, Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair
             Timothy J. Heaphy, Chief Investigative Counsel
                      Jamie Fleet, Senior Advisor
               Timothy R. Mulvey, Communications Director
           Candyce Phoenix, Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor
 John F. Wood, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice 
                                 Chair

Katherine B. Abrams, Staff                  Thomas E. Joscelyn, Senior 
    Associate                                Professional Staff Member
Temidayo Aganga-Williams, Senior            Rebecca L. Knooihuizen, Financial 
    Investigative Counsel                           Investigator
Alejandra Apecechea, Investigative           Casey E. Lucier, Investigative 
    Counsel                                           Counsel
Lisa A. Bianco, Director of Member          Damon M. Marx, Professional Staff 
    Services and Security Manager                    Member
Jerome P. Bjelopera, Investigator           Evan B. Mauldin, Chief Clerk
Bryan Bonner, Investigative Counsel         Yonatan L. Moskowitz, Senior
Richard R. Bruno, Senior                           Counsel
    Administrative Assistant                Hannah G. Muldavin, Deputy 
Marcus Childress, Investigative             Communications Director
    Counsel                                 Jonathan D. Murray, Professional 
John Marcus Clark, Security                         Staff Member
    Director                                Jacob A. Nelson, Professional 
Jacqueline N. Colvett, Digital               Staff Member
    Director                                 Elizabeth Obrand, Staff Associate
Heather I. Connelly, Professional            Raymond O'Mara, Director of 
    Staff Member                                  External Affairs
Meghan E. Conroy, Investigator               Elyes Ouechtati, Technology 
Heather L. Crowell, Printer                           Partner
    Proofreader                              Robin M. Peguero, Investigative 
William C. Danvers, Senior                            Counsel
    Researcher                             Sandeep A. Prasanna, Investigative 
Soumyalatha Dayananda, Senior                        Counsel
    Investigative Counsel                   Barry Pump, Parliamentarian
Stephen W. DeVine, Senior Counsel          Sean M. Quinn, Investigative 
Lawrence J. Eagleburger,                             Counsel
    Professional Staff Member               Brittany M. J. Record, Senior 
Kevin S. Elliker, Investigative                     Counsel
    Counsel                               Denver Riggleman, Senior Technical
Margaret E. Emamzadeh, Staff                        Advisor
    Associate                             Joshua D. Roselman, Investigative
Sadallah A. Farah, Professional                    Counsel
    Staff Member                          James N. Sasso, Senior 
Daniel A. George, Senior                   Investigative Counsel
    Investigative Counsel                 Grant H. Saunders, Professional 
Jacob H. Glick, Investigative                     Staff Member
    Counsel                               Samantha O. Stiles, Chief 
Aaron S. Greene, Clerk                    Administrative Officer
Marc S. Harris, Senior                    Sean P. Tonolli, Senior 
    Investigative Counsel                 Investigative Counsel
Alice K. Hayes, Clerk                     David A. Weinberg, Senior 
Quincy T. Henderson, Staff                Professional Staff Member
    Assistant                             Amanda S. Wick, Senior 
Jenna Hopkins, Professional Staff        Investigative Counsel
    Member                               Darrin L. Williams, Jr., Staff 
Camisha L. Johnson, Professional                    Assistant
    Staff Member                     
                                         Zachary S. Wood, Clerk
       
                                     
                                        
                                     
                                    
                       CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS

                             Rawaa Alobaidi
                             Melinda Arons
                              Steve Baker
                            Elizabeth Bisbee
                              David Canady
                             John Coughlin
                             Aaron Dietzen
                              Gina Ferrise
                           Angel Goldsborough
                             James Goldston
                              Polly Grube
                          L. Christine Healey
                             Danny Holladay
                              Percy Howard
                              Dean Jackson
                           Stephanie J. Jones
                              Hyatt Mamoun
                               Mary Marsh
                               Todd Mason
                              Ryan Mayers
                              Jeff McBride
                               Fred Muram
                             Alex Newhouse
                              John Norton
                             Orlando Pinder
                               Owen Pratt
                              Dan Pryzgoda
                              Brian Sasser
                            William Scherer
                              Driss Sekkat
                              Chris Stuart
                            Preston Sullivan
                              Brian Young

                           Innovative Driven
                           
                            C O N T E N T S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page

                               Statements

The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress 
  From the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee 
  to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
  Capitol........................................................     1
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the 
  State of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to 
  Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol     2
The Honorable Elaine G. Luria, a Representative in Congress From 
  the State of Virginia..........................................     4
The Honorable Adam Kinzinger, a Representative in Congress From 
  the State of Illinois..........................................     5

                               Witnesses

Mr. Matthew Pottinger, Former Deputy National Security Advisor...     6
Ms. Sarah Matthews, Former Deputy Press Secretary and Special 
  Assistant to the President.....................................     7


                HEARING ON THE JANUARY 6TH INVESTIGATION

                              ----------                              


                        Thursday, July 21, 2022

                     U.S. House of Representatives,
 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
                                 the United States Capitol,
                                                    Washington, DC.
    The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 8:01 p.m., in 
room 390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Liz Cheney (Vice 
Chair of the Committee) presiding.
    Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger.
    Vice Chair Cheney. The Committee will be in order.
    Chairman Thompson. Good evening. Earlier this week, I 
received a positive COVID diagnosis. Per CDC guidelines, I 
received the initial two shots and all of the boosters. Thus 
far, I have been blessed to experience very minimal symptoms. 
Because I am still quarantined, I cannot participate in person 
with my colleagues. I have asked our Vice Chair, Ms. Cheney, to 
preside over this evening's hearing, including maintaining 
order in the room and swearing in our witnesses.
    Over the last month and a half, the Select Committee has 
told the story of a President who did everything in his power 
to overturn an election. He lied. He bullied. He betrayed his 
oath. He tried to destroy our democratic institutions. He 
summoned a mob to Washington.
    Afterwards, on January 6th, when he knew that the assembled 
mob was heavily armed and angry, he commanded the mob to go to 
the Capitol, and he emphatically commanded the heavily-armed 
mob to ``fight like hell.'' For the weeks between the November 
election and January 6th, Donald Trump was a force to be 
reckoned with. He shrugged off the factually and legally 
correct sober advice of his knowledgeable and sensible 
advisers. Instead, he recklessly blazed a path of lawlessness 
and corruption, the cost of which democracy be damned.
    Then he stopped. For 187 minutes on January 6th, this man 
of unbridled, destructive energy could not be moved, not by his 
aides, not by his allies, not by the violent chants of rioters, 
or the desperate pleas of those facing down the riot. More 
tellingly, Donald Trump ignored and disregarded the desperate 
pleas of his own family, including Ivanka and Don, Jr. Even 
though he was the only person in the world who could call off 
the mob he sent to the Capitol, he could not be moved to rise 
from his dining room table and walk the few steps down the 
White House hallway into the Press Briefing Room where cameras 
were anxiously and desperately waiting to carry his message to 
the armed and violent mob, savagely beating and killing law 
enforcement officers, ravaging the Capitol, and hunting down 
the Vice President and various Members of Congress.
    He could not be moved. This evening, my colleagues Mr. 
Kinzinger of Illinois and Mrs. Luria of Virginia will take you 
inside the White House during those 187 minutes. We also remind 
you of what was happening at the Capitol minute by minute, as a 
final violent tragic part of Donald Trump's scheme to cling to 
power unraveled, while he ignored his advisers, stood by, and 
watched it unfold on television.
    Let me offer a final thought about the Select Committee's 
work so far. As we have made clear throughout these hearings, 
our investigation goes forward. We continue to receive new 
information every day. We continue to hear from witnesses. We 
will reconvene in September to continue laying out our findings 
to the American people.
    But, as that work goes forward, a number of facts are 
clear. There can be no doubt that there was a coordinated, 
multi-step effort to overturn an election, overseen and 
directed by Donald Trump. There can be no doubt that he 
commanded a mob, a mob he knew was heavily armed, violent and 
angry, to march on the Capitol to try to stop the peaceful 
transfer of power, and he made targets out of his own Vice 
President and the lawmakers gathered to do the people's work.
    These facts have gone undisputed. So there needs to be 
accountability, accountability under the law, accountability to 
the American people, accountability at every level, from the 
local precincts in many States where Donald Trump and his 
allies attacked election workers for just doing their jobs, all 
the way up to the Oval Office, where Donald Trump embraced the 
illegal advice of insurrectionists that a Federal judge has 
already said was ``a coup in search of a legal theory.''
    Our democracy withstood the attack on January 6th. If there 
is no accountability for January 6th for every part of this 
scheme, I fear that we will not overcome the on-going threat to 
our democracy. There must be stiff consequences for those 
responsible.
    Now, I will turn things over to our Vice Chair to start 
telling this story.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Without objection, the presiding officer is authorized to 
declare the Committee in recess at any point. Pursuant to House 
Deposition Authority Regulation 10, I announce that the 
Committee has approved the release of the deposition material 
presented during today's hearing.
    Let me begin tonight by wishing Chairman Thompson a rapid 
recovery from COVID. He has expertly led us through eight 
hearings so far, and he has brought us to the point we are 
today. In our initial hearing, the Chairman and I described 
what ultimately became Donald Trump's seven-part plan to 
overturn the 2020 Presidential election, a plan stretching from 
before election day through January 6th.
    At the close of today's hearing, our ninth, we will have 
addressed each element of that plan. But, in the course of 
these hearings, we have received new evidence, and new 
witnesses have bravely stepped forward. Efforts to litigate and 
overcome immunity and executive privilege claims have been 
successful, and those continue. Doors have opened, new 
subpoenas have been issued, and the dam has begun to break.
    Now, even as we conduct our ninth hearing, we have 
considerably more to do. We have far more evidence to share 
with the American people and more to gather. So, our Committee 
will spend August pursuing emerging information on multiple 
fronts before convening further hearings this September.
    Today, we know far more about the President's plans and 
actions to overturn the election than almost all Members of 
Congress did when President Trump was impeached on January 13, 
2021, or when he was tried by the Senate in February that year. 
Fifty-seven of 100 Senators voted to convict President Trump at 
that time, and more than 20 others said they were voting 
against conviction because the President's term had already 
expired. At the time, the Republican leader of U.S. Senate said 
this about Donald Trump:

    Senator McConnell. A mob was assaulting the Capitol in his name. 
These criminals were carrying his banners, hanging his flags, and 
screaming their loyalty to him. It was obvious that only President 
Trump could end this. He was the only one.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Leader McConnell reached those 
conclusions based on what he knew then without any of the much 
more detailed evidence you will see today. Lawlessness and 
violence began at the Capitol on January 6, 2021, before 1 
p.m., and continued until well after darkness fell. What 
exactly was our Commander-in-Chief doing during the hours of 
violence? Today, we address precisely that issue.
    Everything you've heard in these hearings thus far will 
help you understand President Trump's motives during the 
violence. You already know Donald Trump's goal: To halt or 
delay Congress's official proceedings to count certified 
electoral votes. You know that Donald Trump tried to pressure 
his Vice President to illegally reject votes and delay the 
proceedings. You know he tried to convince State officials and 
State legislators to flip their electoral votes from Biden to 
Trump, and you know Donald Trump tried to corrupt our 
Department of Justice to aid his scheme.
    But, by January 6th, none of that had worked. Only one 
thing was succeeding on the afternoon of January 6th. Only one 
thing was achieving President Trump's goal. The angry armed mob 
President Trump sent to the Capitol broke through security, 
invaded the Capitol, and forced the vote counting to stop. That 
mob was violent and destructive, and many came armed.
    As you will hear, Secret Service agents protecting the Vice 
President were exceptionally concerned about his safety and 
their own. Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy was scared, as were 
others in Congress, even those who themselves helped to provoke 
the violence. As you will see today, Donald Trump's own White 
House Counsel, his own White House staff, members of his own 
family all implored him to immediately intervene to condemn the 
violence and instruct his supporters to stand down, leave the 
Capitol, and disperse.
    For multiple hours, he would not. Donald Trump would not 
get on the phone and order the military or law enforcement 
agencies to help. For hours, Donald Trump chose not to answer 
the pleas from Congress from his own party and from all across 
our Nation to do what his oath required. He refused to defend 
our Nation and our Constitution. He refused to do what every 
American President must.
    In the days after January 6th, almost no one of any 
political party would defend President Trump's conduct, and no 
one should do so today.
    Thank you. I now recognize the gentlewoman from Virginia.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you, Madam Vice Chair.
    Article II of our Constitution requires that the President 
swear a very specific oath every 4 years.
    Every President swears or affirms to faithfully execute the 
office of the President of the United States and, to the best 
of their ability, preserve, protect, and defend the 
Constitution of the United States. The President also assumes 
the constitutional duty to take care that our Nation's laws be 
faithfully executed, and as the Commander-in-Chief of our 
military.
    Our hearings have shown the many ways in which President 
Trump tried to stop the peaceful transfer of power in the days 
leading up to January 6th. With each step of his plan, he 
betrayed his oath of office and was derelict in his duty. 
Tonight, we will further examine President Trump's actions on 
the day of the attack on the Capitol.
    Early that afternoon, President Trump instructed tens of 
thousands of supporters at and near the Ellipse rally, a number 
of whom he knew were armed with various types of weapons, to 
march to the Capitol.
    After telling the crowd to march multiple times, he 
promised he would be with them, and finished his remarks at 
1:10 p.m. like this:

    President Trump. We're going to walk down and I'll be there with 
you. We're going to walk down--[applause]--we're going to walk down, 
anyone you want, but I think right here we're going to walk down to the 
Capitol. [applause] So let's walk down Pennsylvania Avenue.

    Mrs. Luria. At this time, the Vice President was in the 
Capitol. The joint session of Congress to certify Joe Biden's 
victory was under way, and the Proud Boys and other rioters had 
stormed through the first barriers and begun the attack. Radio 
communications from law enforcement informed Secret Service and 
those in the White House Situation Room of these developments 
in real time.
    At the direction of President Trump, thousands more rioters 
marched from the Ellipse to the Capitol, and they joined the 
attack. As you will see in great detail tonight, President 
Trump was being advised by nearly everyone to immediately 
instruct his supporters to leave the Capitol, disperse, and 
halt the violence. Virtually everyone told President Trump to 
condemn the violence in clear and unmistakable terms, and those 
on Capitol Hill and across the Nation begged President Trump to 
help.
    But the former President chose not to do what all of those 
people begged. He refused to tell the mob to leave until 4:17, 
when he tweeted out a video statement filmed in the Rose Garden 
ending with this.

    President Trump. So go home. We love you. You're very special. 
You've seen what happens. You see the way others are treated that are 
so bad and so evil. I know how you feel but go home and go home in 
peace.

    Mrs. Luria. By that time, two pipe bombs had been found at 
locations near the Capitol, including where the Vice President-
elect was conducting a meeting. Hours of hand-to-hand combat 
had seriously injured scores of law enforcement officers. The 
Capitol had been invaded. The electoral count had been halted 
as Members were evacuated. Rioters took the floor of the 
Senate. They rifled through desks and broke into offices. They 
nearly caught up to Vice President Pence. Guns were drawn on 
the House floor, and a rioter was shot attempting to infiltrate 
the Chamber.
    We know that a number of rioters intended acts of physical 
violence against specific elected officials. We know virtually 
all the rioters were motivated by President Trump's rhetoric 
that the election had been stolen, and they felt they needed to 
take their country back.
    This hearing is principally about what happened inside of 
the White House that afternoon.
    From the time when President Trump ended his speech until 
the moment when he finally told the mob to go home, was a span 
of 187 minutes, more than 3 hours. What you will learn is that 
President Trump sat in his dining room and watched the attack 
on television while his senior-most staff, closest advisers, 
and family members begged him to do what is expected of any 
American President.
    I served proudly for 20 years as an officer in the United 
States Navy. Veterans of our Armed Forces know first-hand the 
leadership that is required in a time of crisis, urgent and 
decisive action that puts duty and country first.
    But, on January 6th, when lives and our democracy hung in 
the balance, President Trump refused to act because of his 
selfish desire to stay in power.
    I yield to the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. Kinzinger.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Luria.
    One week after the attack, Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy 
acknowledged the simple truth: President Trump should have 
acted immediately to stop the violence.
    During our investigation, General Mark Milley, the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, also remarked on the President's 
failure to act.
    Let's hear what they had to say.

    Mr. McCarthy. The President bears responsibility for Wednesday's 
attack on Congress by mob rioters. He should have immediately denounced 
the mob when he saw what was unfolding. These facts require immediate 
action by President Trump.
                                 ______
                                 
    General Milley. Yeah. You know, Commander in Chief, you got an 
assault going on on the Capitol of the United States of America, and 
there's nothing? No call? Nothing? Zero?

    Mr. Kinzinger. Like my colleague from Virginia, I am a 
veteran. I served in the Air Force, and I serve currently in 
the Air National Guard. I can tell you that General Milley's 
reaction to President Trump's conduct is 100 percent correct, 
and so was Leader McCarthy's.
    What explains President Trump's behavior? Why did he not 
take immediate action in a time of crisis? Because President 
Trump's plan for January 6th was to halt or delay Congress's 
official proceeding to count the votes. The mob attacking the 
Capitol quickly caused the evacuation of both the House and the 
Senate. The count ground to an absolute halt and was ultimately 
delayed for hours. The mob was accomplishing President Trump's 
purpose, so of course he didn't intervene.
    Here is what will be clear by the end of this hearing: 
President Trump did not fail to act during the 187 minutes 
between leaving the Ellipse and telling the mob to go home; he 
chose not to act.
    But there were hundreds that day who honored their oaths 
and put their lives on the line to protect the people inside 
the Capitol and to safeguard our democracy.
    Many of them are here tonight with us, and many more are 
watching from home. As you already know, and we will see again 
tonight, their service and sacrifice shines a bright light on 
President Trump's dishonor and dereliction of duty.
    I yield to the Vice Chair.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mr. Kinzinger.
    I would like to begin by welcoming our witnesses this 
evening. Tonight, we are joined by Mr. Matthew Pottinger. Mr. 
Pottinger is a decorated former Marine intelligence officer who 
served this Nation on tours of duty in Afghanistan and Iraq. He 
served in the Trump White House from the first day of the 
administration through the early morning hours of January 7, 
2021. The last role in which he served in the White House was 
as Deputy National Security Advisor to the President of United 
States.
    We are also joined by Sarah Matthews. Ms. Matthews started 
her career in communications working on Capitol Hill serving on 
the Republican staffs of several House committees. She then 
worked as Deputy Press Secretary for President Trump's 
reelection campaign before joining the Trump White House in 
June 2020. She served there as Deputy Press Secretary and 
Special Assistant to the President until the evening of January 
6, 2021.
    I will now swear in our witnesses. The witnesses will 
please stand and raise their right hands.
    [Witnesses sworn.]
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you. You may be seated. Let the 
record reflect that the witnesses answered in the affirmative.
    Thank you, both, again for being here tonight.
    Mr. Pottinger, thank you for your service to the Nation as 
well as for joining us this evening.
    Can you please briefly explain what your responsibilities 
were as Deputy National Security Advisor to the President?
    Mr. Pottinger. Thank you, Madam Vice Chair.
    When I started at the White House, I was a senior director 
for Asia on the National Security Council staff. So that was a 
job that involved helping coordinate the President's Asia 
policy. I supported the President when he met or interacted 
with Asian leaders. Later, in 2019, I was promoted to the job 
of Deputy National Security Advisor. In that role, I was the 
chairman of the Deputies Committee. That is an NSC meeting of 
all of the Deputy Cabinet Secretaries. We would settle 
important matters of National policy related to our National 
security, and we would also tee up options for the President 
and for his Cabinet Members.
    It was--I felt then as I do now it was a privilege to serve 
in the White House. I am also very proud of President Trump's 
foreign policy accomplishments. We were able to finally compete 
with China. We were also able to broker peace agreements 
between Israel and three Arab states. I mean, those are some 
examples of the types of policies that I think made our country 
safer.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you, Mr. Pottinger.
    Were you in the White House during the attack on the 
Capitol on January 6th?
    Mr. Pottinger. For most of the day, I was in the White 
House. Although, when the President was speaking at the rally, 
I was actually offsite at a scheduled meeting with India's 
Ambassador to the United States. The National Security Council 
staff was not involved in organizing the security for what was 
a domestic event, the rally, but I did return to the White 
House at roughly 2:30 p.m.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you. I know my colleagues will 
have additional questions for you about that afternoon.
    Let me turn now to you, Ms. Matthews.
    How did you come to join President Trump's White House 
staff?
    Ms. Matthews. Thank you, Madam Vice Chair.
    As you outlined, I have been a lifelong Republican. I 
joined the Trump reelection campaign in June 2019. I was one of 
the first communication staffers actually on board for his 
reelection campaign. During that time, I traveled all around 
the country and met Kayleigh McEnany, who was also working on 
his reelection campaign.
    I worked there for a year, and I formed a close 
relationship with Ms. McEnany, and she moved over to the White 
House in April 2020 to start as White House Press Secretary, 
and she brought over a group of campaign staff with her. So I 
joined her over at the White House in June 2020 to start as her 
deputy.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Were you, Ms. Matthews, at work in the 
White House on January 6th?
    Ms. Matthews. Yes. I was working out of the West Wing that 
day.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you.
    Now I would like to recognize the gentlewoman from Virginia 
and the gentleman from Illinois.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you, Madam Vice Chair.
    As you have seen in our prior hearings, President Trump 
summoned the mob to D.C. on January 6th. Before he went on 
stage, he knew some of them were armed and prepared for combat. 
During his speech, he implored them to march to the Capitol, as 
he had always planned to do. By the time he walked off the 
stage, his supporters had already breached the outer perimeter 
of the Capitol at the foot of Capitol Hill.
    Since our last hearings, we have received new testimony 
from a security professional working in the White House complex 
on January 6th with access to relevant information and 
responsibility to report to National security officials. This 
security official told us that the White House was aware of 
multiple reports of weapons in the crowd that morning. We as a 
Committee are cognizant of the fear of retribution expressed by 
certain National security witnesses who have come forward to 
tell the truth. We have therefore taken steps to protect this 
National security individual's identity.
    Listen to that clip from their testimony.

    Ms. Dayananda. What was the consistent message from the people 
about this idea of the President to walk to the Capitol?
    Anonymous White House Security Official. To be completely honest, 
we were all in a state of shock.
    Ms. Dayananda. Because why?
    Anonymous White House Security Official. Because--because it just--
one, I think the actual physical feasibility of doing it, and then also 
we all knew what that implicated and what that meant; that this was no 
longer a rally; that this was going to move to something else if he 
physically walked to the Capitol. I--I don't know if you want to use 
the word ``insurrection,'' ``coup,'' whatever. We all knew that this 
would move from a normal, democratic, you know, public event into 
something else.
    Ms. Dayananda. What was--what was driving that sentiment 
considering this--this--this part of it, the actual breach of the 
Capitol, hadn't happened yet?
    Anonymous White House Security Official. Why were we alarmed?
    Ms. Dayananda. Right.
    Anonymous White House Security Official. The President wanted to 
lead tens of thousands of people to the Capitol. I think that was 
enough grounds for us to be alarmed.

    Mrs. Luria. Even though he understood many of his 
supporters were armed, the President was still adamant to go to 
the Capitol when he got off the stage at the Ellipse, but his 
Secret Service detail was equally determined to not let him go. 
That led to a heated argument with the detail that delayed the 
departure of the motorcade to the White House.
    We have evidence from multiple sources regarding an angry 
exchange in the Presidential SUV, including testimony we will 
disclose today from two witnesses who confirmed that a 
confrontation occurred. The first witness is a former White 
House employee with National security responsibilities. After 
seeing the initial violence at the Capitol on TV, the 
individual went to see Tony Ornato, the deputy chief of staff, 
in his office. Mr. Ornato was there with Bobby Engel, the 
President's lead Secret Service agent.
    This employee told us that Mr. Ornato said that the 
President was ``irate when Mr. Engel refused to drive him to 
the Capitol.'' Mr. Engel did not refute what Mr. Ornato said.
    The second witness is retired Sergeant Mark Robinson of the 
D.C. Police Department, who was assigned to the President's 
motorcade that day. He sat in the lead vehicle with the Secret 
Service agent responsible for the motorcade, also called the TS 
agent. Here is how Sergeant Robinson remembered the exchange.

    Ms. Dayananda. Was there any description of what--of what was 
occurring in the car?
    Sergeant Robinson. No. Only that on--the only description I 
received was that the President was upset and was adamant about going 
to the Capitol, and there was a heated discussion about that.
    Ms. Dayananda. And when you say ``heated,'' is that your word or is 
that the word that was described by the TS agent?
    Sergeant Robinson. No. The word described by the TS agent, meaning 
that the President was upset, and he was saying there was a heated 
argument or discussion about going to the Capitol.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Schiff. About how many times would you say you've been part of 
that motorcade with the President?
    Sergeant Robinson. Probably over a hundred times.
    Mr. Schiff. And in that hundred times, have you ever witnessed 
another discussion of--an argument or heated discussion with the 
President where the President was contradicting where he was supposed 
to go or what the Secret Service believed was safe?
    Sergeant Robinson. No.

    Mrs. Luria. Like other witnesses, Sergeant Robinson also 
testified that he was aware that individuals in the crowd were 
armed.

    Sergeant Robinson. Yes, I believe we was on special events channel, 
and I was monitoring the traffic. And so I could hear some of the units 
pointing out to individuals that there were individuals along 
Constitution Avenue that were armed, that were up in the trees, and I 
can hear the units responding to those individuals. So there's always a 
concern when there's a POTUS in the area.

    Mrs. Luria. Like other witnesses, Sergeant Robinson told us 
that the President still wanted to travel to the Capitol even 
after returning to the White House.

    Ms. Dayananda. So, at the end of the speech, what was the plan 
supposed to be?
    Sergeant Robinson. So, at the end of the speech, we do know that 
while inside the limo, the President was still adamant about going to 
the Capitol. That's been relayed to me by the TS agent. And so we did 
depart the Ellipse, and we responded back to the White House. However, 
we--the motorcade--POTUS motorcade was placed on standby. And so we 
were told to stand by on the West Exec until they confirmed whether or 
not the President was going to go to the Capitol. And so I may have 
waited, I would just estimate, maybe 45 to--45 minutes to an hour 
waiting for Secret Service to make that decision.

    Mrs. Luria. The motorcade waited at the White House for 
more than 45 minutes before being released. The Committee is 
also aware that accounts of the angry confrontation in the 
Presidential SUV have circulated widely among the Secret 
Service since January 6th. Recent disclosures have also caused 
the Committee to subpoena yet further information from the 
Secret Service, which we have begun to receive and will 
continue to assess. The Committee is also aware that certain 
Secret Service witnesses have now retained new private counsel. 
We anticipate further testimony under oath and other new 
information in the coming weeks.
    After the Secret Service refused to take President Trump to 
the Capitol, he returned to the White House.
    What you see on the screen is a photo of him inside the 
Oval Office immediately after he returned from the rally, still 
wearing his overcoat. A White House employee informed the 
President as soon as he returned to the Oval about the riot at 
the Capitol. Let me repeat that: Within 15 minutes of leaving 
the stage, President Trump knew that the Capitol was besieged 
and under attack.
    At 1:25, President Trump went to the private dining room 
off the Oval Office. From 1:25 until 4 o'clock, the President 
stayed in his dining room. Just to give you a sense where the 
dining room is situated in the West Wing, let's take look at 
this floor plan.
    The dining room is connected to the Oval Office by a short 
hallway. Witnesses told us that, on January 6th, President 
Trump sat in his usual spot, at the head of the table facing a 
television hanging on the wall. We know from the employee that 
the TV was tuned to Fox News all afternoon. Here you can see 
Fox News on the TV showing coverage of the joint session that 
was airing that day at 1:25.
    Other witnesses confirmed that President Trump was in the 
dining room with the TV on for more than 2\1/2\ hours. There 
was no official record of what President Trump did while in the 
dining room. On the screen is the Presidential call log from 
January 6th.
    As you can see, there is no official record of President 
Trump receiving or placing a call between 11:06 and 6:54 p.m.
    As to what the President was doing that afternoon, the 
Presidential daily diary is also silent. It contains no 
information from the period between 1:21 p.m. and 4:03 p.m.
    There are also no photos of President Trump during this 
critical period between 1:21 in the Oval Office and when he 
went outside to the Rose Garden after 4 o'clock. The chief 
White House photographer wanted to take pictures because it 
was, in her words, very important for his archives and for 
history, but she was told ``no photographs.''
    Despite the lack of photos or an official record, we have 
learned what President Trump was doing while he was watching TV 
in the dining room, but before we get into that, it is 
important to understand what he never did that day. Let's 
watch.

    Vice Chair Cheney. So are you aware of any phone call by the 
President of the United States to the Secretary of Defense that day?
    Mr. Cipollone. Not that I'm aware of, no.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Are you aware of any phone call by the President 
of the United States to the Attorney General of the United States that 
day?
    Mr. Cipollone. No.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Are you aware of any phone call by the President 
of the United States to the Secretary of Homeland Security that day?
    Mr. Cipollone. I--I'm not aware of that, no.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. George. Did you ever hear the Vice President--excuse me, the 
President ask for the National Guard?
    General Kellogg. No.
    Mr. George. Did you ever hear the President ask for a law 
enforcement response?
    General Kellogg. No.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. George. So, as somebody who works in the national security 
space and with the National Security Council, if there were going to be 
troops present or called up for a rally in Washington, DC, for example, 
is that something that you would have been aware of?
    General Kellogg. Yeah, I would have.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. George. Do you know if he asked anybody to reach out to any of 
those that we just listed off--National Guard, DOD, FBI, Homeland 
Security, Secret Service, Mayor Bowser, or the Capitol Police--about 
the situation at the Capitol?
    Mr. Luna. I am not aware of any of those requests. No, sir.

    Mrs. Luria. We have confirmed in numerous interviews with 
senior law enforcement and military leaders, Vice President 
Pence's staff and D.C. government officials, none of them--not 
one--heard from President Trump that day. He did not call to 
issue orders. He did not call to offer assistance. This week, 
we received additional testimony from yet another witness about 
why the President didn't make any efforts to quell the attack.
    The former White House employee with National security 
responsibilities told us about a conversation with senior 
advisor Eric Herschmann and Pat Cipollone, the top White House 
lawyer. This conversation was about a pending call from the 
Pentagon seeking to coordinate on the response to the attack.
    Mr. Herschmann turned to Mr. Cipollone and said the 
President didn't want to do anything.
    So, Mr. Cipollone had to take the call himself.
    So, if President Trump wasn't calling law enforcement or 
military leaders, what did President Trump spend his time doing 
that afternoon while he first settled into the dining room? He 
was calling Senators to encourage them to delay or object to 
the certification. Here is Kayleigh McEnany, his Press 
Secretary, to explain.

    Mr. Wood. All right. That says ``back there'' and ``he wants list 
of Senators,'' and then ``he's calling them one by one.'' Do you know 
which ones he called?
    Ms. McEnany. To the best of my recollection, no. As I say in my 
notes, he wanted a list of the Senators, and, you know, I left him at--
at that point.

    Mrs. Luria. Because the Presidential call log is empty, we 
do not yet know precisely which Senators President Trump was 
calling. But we do know from Rudy Giuliani's phone records that 
President Trump also called him at 1:39, after he had been told 
that the riot was under way at the Capitol.
    Mr. Giuliani was President Trump's lead election attorney. 
According to the phone records, the President's call with him 
lasted approximately 4 minutes. Recall that Fox News was on in 
the dining room. Let's take a look at what was airing as this 
call was ending.

    Fox News Reporter. The President, as we all saw, fired this crowd 
up. They've all--tens of thousands, maybe 100,000 or more, have gone 
down to the Capitol or elsewhere in the city, and they're very upset.
    Now, I jumped down as soon as we heard the news that Bret gave you 
about Mike Pence. I started talking to these people. I said, ``What do 
you think?'' One woman, an Air Force veteran from Missouri, said she 
was, quote, ``disgusted to hear that news and that it was his duty to 
do something.'' And I told her--I said, ``There's nothing in the 
Constitution unilaterally that Vice President Pence could do.'' She 
said, ``That doesn't matter. He should have fought for Trump.''

    Mrs. Luria. At 1:49, here is what was happening at the 
Capitol with President Trump's fired-up supporters.

    Metropolitan Police Department Transmission. We're going to give--
fire a warning. We're going to try to get compliance, but this is now 
effectively a riot.
    Metropolitan Police Department Transmission. 1349 hours declaring 
it a riot.

    Mrs. Luria. What did President Trump do at 1:49, as the 
D.C. Police at the same time were declaring a riot at the 
Capitol?
    As you can see on the screen, he tweeted out a link to the 
recording of his Ellipse speech. This was the same speech in 
which he knowingly sent an armed mob to the Capitol, but 
President Trump made no comment about the lawlessness and the 
violence.
    I yield to the gentleman from Illinois.
    Mr. Kinzinger. The next action President Trump took was to 
tweet at 2:24 p.m. What happened during the 35 minutes between 
his last tweet at 1:49 and 2:24? His staff repeatedly came into 
the room to see him and plead that he make a strong public 
statement condemning the violence and instructing the mob to 
leave the Capitol. He did not relent until after 4 o'clock when 
he went out to go to the Rose Garden to film his now infamous 
``go home'' message.
    Pat Cipollone was a top White House lawyer. Here is what he 
told us about his reaction to seeing the violence and his 
advice throughout the afternoon.

    Mr. Heaphy. When did you first realize that there was actual 
violence or rioting?
    Mr. Cipollone. I--I first realized it may have been on television 
or it may have been Tony or it may have been Philbin. But I found out 
that people were--you know, they weren't in the Capitol yet, but they 
were, you know--and then I started watching it, and, you know, then I 
was aware.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. What specifically did you think needed to be done?
    Mr. Cipollone. I think I was pretty clear there needed to be an 
immediate and forceful response statement--public statement that people 
need to leave the Capitol now.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. My question is exactly that, that it sounds like you 
from the very onset of violence at the Capitol, right around 2 o'clock, 
were pushing for a strong statement that people should leave the 
Capitol. Is that right?
    Mr. Cipollone. I was, and others were as well.
                                 ______
                                 
    Vice Chair Cheney. Pat, you--you said that you expressed your 
opinion forcefully. Could you tell us exactly how you did that?
    Mr. Cipollone. Yeah, I can't--I don't have--you know, I have to--on 
the privilege issue, I can't talk about conversations with the 
President, but I can generically say that I said, you know, people need 
to be told--there needs to be a public announcement fast that they need 
to leave the Capitol.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And, Pat, could you let us know approximately 
when you said that?
    Mr. Cipollone. Approximately when? Almost immediately after I found 
out people were getting into the Capitol or approaching the Capitol in 
a way that was--was violent.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. Do you remember any discussion with Mark Meadows with 
respect to his view that the President didn't want to do--was somehow 
resistant to wanting to say something along the lines that you 
suggested?
    Mr. Cipollone. Tony [inaudible]--just to be clear, many people 
suggested it, not just me. Many people felt the same way. I'm sure I 
had conversations with Mark about this during the course of the day and 
expressed my--my opinion very forcefully that this needs to be done.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. So your advice was to tell people to leave the Capitol, 
and it took over 2 hours when there were subsequent statements made, 
tweets put forth, that in your view were insufficient. Did you 
continue, Mr. Cipollone, throughout the period of time up until 4:17--
continue, you and others, to push for a stronger statement?
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes.
    Mr. Heaphy. Were you joined in that effort by Ivanka Trump?
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes.
    Mr. Heaphy. Eric Herschmann?
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes.
    Mr. Heaphy. And Mark Meadows?
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Hutchinson. White House Counsel's Office wanted there to be a 
strong statement out to condemn the rioters. I'm confident in that. I'm 
confident that Ivanka Trump wanted there to be a strong statement to 
condemn the rioters. I don't know the private conversation she had with 
Mr. Trump, but I remember when she came to the office one time with 
White House counsel's office--when she came to the Chief of Staff's 
office with White House counsel's office, she was talking about the 
speech later that day and trying to get her dad on board with saying 
something that was more direct than he had wanted to at the time and 
throughout the afternoon.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Cipollone. I think Mark also wanted--got--I remember him 
getting Ivanka involved, because--said, ``Get Ivanka down here,'' 
because he thought that would be important. I don't think Jared was 
there in the morning, but I think he came later. I remember thinking it 
was important to get him in there, too.
    And--and of course, Pat Philbin, you know, was expressing the same 
things. I mean, Pat Philbin, you know, was very--as I said, I don't 
think there was one of these meetings where--there might have been, but 
for the most part, I remember the both of us going down together, going 
back, getting on phone calls. He was also very clearly expressing this 
view.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Pat Cipollone and Cassidy Hutchinson, an 
aide to Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, also told us about the 
``hang Mike Pence'' chants. As you will see, Mr. Cipollone 
recalled conversations about those chants in the West Wing, but 
he relied on executive privilege to maintain confidentiality 
over his and others' direct communications with the President. 
Although Mr. Cipollone was unwilling to provide more detail, 
Ms. Hutchinson provided more explicit information filling in 
those blanks. See that for yourself.

    Ms. Hutchinson. It wasn't until Mark hung up the phone, handed it 
back to me, I went back to my desk. A couple of minutes later, him and 
Pat came back, possibly Eric Herschmann, too. I'm pretty sure Eric 
Herschmann was there, but I'm--I'm confident it was Pat that was there. 
I remember Pat saying something to the effect of, ``Mark, we need to do 
something more. They're literally calling for the Vice President to be 
F'ing hung.'' And Mark had responded something to the effect of, ``You 
heard him, Pat. He thinks Mike deserves it. He doesn't think they're 
doing anything wrong.'' To which Pat said something, ``This is F'ing 
crazy. We need to be doing something more,'' and briefly stepped into 
Mark's office.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. Do you remember any discussion at any point during the 
day about rioters at the Capitol chanting ``hang Mike Pence?''
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes, I remember--I remember hearing that--about 
that, yes. I don't know if I observed that myself on TV.
    Mr. Heaphy. I'm just curious. I understand the--the privilege line 
you've drawn, but do you remember what you can share with us about the 
discussion about those chants, the ``hang Mike Pence'' chants?
    Mr. Cipollone. I can tell you my view of that.
    Mr. Heaphy. Yes, please.
    Mr. Cipollone. My view of that is that is outrageous. And for 
anyone to suggest such a thing of the Vice President of the United 
States, for people in that crowd to be chanting that I thought was 
terrible. I thought it was outrageous and wrong, and I expressed that 
very clearly.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Schiff. With respect to your conversations with Mr. Meadows, 
though, did you specifically raise your concern over the Vice President 
with him, and--and how did he respond?
    Mr. Cipollone. I believe I raised the concern about the Vice 
President, and I--and I--again, the nature of his response, without 
recalling exactly, was he--you know, people were doing all that they 
could.
    Mr. Schiff. And what about the President, did he indicate whether 
he thought the President was doing what needed to be done to protect 
the Vice President?
    Mr. Purpura. Privilege.
    Mr. Heaphy. You have to assert it. That question would----
    [Crosstalk.]
    Mr. Cipollone [continuing]. I'm being instructed on privilege.
    Mr. Heaphy. I see.

    Mr. Kinzinger. In addition, Mr. Cipollone testified that it 
would have been feasible, as commentators on television were 
suggesting, for President Trump to immediately appear at the 
podium in the press room to address the Nation.

    Mr. Heaphy. Would it have been possible at any moment for the 
President to walk down to the podium in the Briefing Room and tell--
talk to the Nation at any time between when you first gave him that 
advice at 2 o'clock and 4:17 when the video statement went? Would that 
have been possible?
    Mr. Cipollone. Would it have been possible?
    Mr. Heaphy. Yes.
    Mr. Cipollone. Yes, it would have been possible.

    Mr. Kinzinger. We just heard Mr. Cipollone say that 
President Trump could have gone to the Press Briefing Room to 
issue a statement at any moment. To give you a sense of just 
how easy that would have been, let's take a look at a map of 
the West Wing.
    As we saw earlier, the President's private dining room is 
at the bottom of the map. The Press Briefing Room is at the top 
highlighted in blue, and the Rose Garden, where the President 
ultimately his ``go home'' video is on the right, next to the 
Oval Office, and that is highlighted in green.
    Ms. Matthews, how quickly could the President have gotten 
on camera in the Press Briefing Room to deliver a statement to 
the Nation?
    Ms. Matthews. So, as you outlined, it would take probably 
less than 60 seconds from the Oval Office dining room over to 
the Press Briefing Room. For folks that might not know, the 
Briefing Room is the room that you see the White House Press 
Secretary do briefings from with the podium and the blue 
backdrop. There is a camera that is on in there at all times. 
So, if the President had wanted to make a statement and address 
the American people, he could have been on camera almost 
instantly.
    Conversely, the White House Press Corps has offices that 
are located directly behind the Briefing Room. So, if he had 
wanted to make an address from the Oval Office, we could have 
assembled the White House Press Corps probably in a matter of 
minutes to get them into the Oval for him to do an on-camera 
address.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you. Other witnesses have given us 
their views on that question. For example, General Keith 
Kellogg told us that some staff were concerned that a live 
appearance by the President at the microphones at that moment 
could actually make matters worse. He told us he recommended 
against doing a press conference because, during his 4 years in 
the Trump administration: ``There wasn't a single clean press 
conference we had had.''
    President Trump's advisers knew his state of mind at that 
moment, and they were worried about what he would say in 
unscripted comments.
    I yield to the gentlewoman from Virginia.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you.
    As you've heard, by 2 o'clock, multiple staff members in 
the White House recognized that a serious situation was under 
way at the Capitol. Personally, I recall being evacuated from 
the House office building where we were sitting by--before this 
time, and it was due to the discovery of two pipe bombs in 
nearby buildings.
    Ms. Matthews, around the same time, you were watching the 
violence unfold on television and social media with colleagues, 
including with Ben Williamson, a senior aide to Mark Meadows 
and the acting director of communications.
    You told us before President Trump sent his next tweet at 
2:24, Mr. Williamson got up to go see Mr. Meadows, and you got 
up to go see Kayleigh McEnany.
    Why did you both do that?
    Ms. Matthews. So, Ben and I were watching the coverage 
unfold from one of the offices in the West Wing, and we both 
recognized that the situation was escalating, and it was 
escalating quickly, and that the President needed to be out 
there immediately to tell these people to go home and condemn 
the violence that we were seeing. So, I told him that I was 
going to make that recommendation to Kayleigh, and he said he 
was going to make the same recommendation to the Chief of Staff 
Mark Meadows.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you. One of your colleagues in the press 
office, Judd Deere, told us he also went to see Ms. McEnany at 
that time. Let's hear what he said about this critical period 
of time right as the rioters were getting into the Capitol.

    Mr. Wood. And why did you think it was necessary to say something?
    Mr. Deere. Well, I mean, it appears that individuals are storming 
the U.S. Capitol Building. They also appear to be supporters of Donald 
Trump who may have been in attendance at the rally. We're going to need 
to say something.
    Mr. Wood. Did you have a view as to what should be said by the 
White House?
    Mr. Deere. If I recall, I told Kayleigh that I thought that we 
needed to encourage individuals to stop, to respect law enforcement, 
and to go home.

    Mrs. Luria. Although President Trump was aware of the on-
going riot, he did not take any immediate action to address the 
lawlessness. Instead, at 2:03, he called Rudy Giuliani again, 
and that call lasted for over 8 minutes.
    Moments later, at 2:13, rioters broke into the Capitol 
itself. One of the Proud Boys charged with seditious 
conspiracy, Dominic Pezzola, used an officer's shield to smash 
a window and rioters flooded into the building.

    Crowd. Go, go, go, go. Go in the Capitol. Go, go, go.

    Mrs. Luria. As rioters were entering the building, the 
Secret Service held Vice President Pence in his office right 
off the Senate Chamber for 13 minutes as they worked to clear a 
safe path to a secure location.
    Now listen to some of that radio traffic and see what they 
were seeing as the protesters got just feet away from where the 
Vice President was holding.

    Secret Service Radio Transmission. They're taking the building. 
Hold.
    Harden that door up.
    If you are moving, we need to move now.
    Copy.
    If we lose any more time, we may have--we may lose the ability to--
to leave. So, if we're going to leave, we need to do it now.
    They've gained access to the second floor, and I've got public 
about 5 feet from me down here below.
    Okay. Copy.
    They are on the second floor moving in now. We may want to consider 
getting out and leaving now. Copy.
    Will we encounter the people once we make our way?
    Repeat.
    Encounter any individuals if we made our way to the--to the----
    There's six officers between us and the people that are 5 to 10 
feet away from me.
    Stand by. I'm going down to evaluate.
    Go ahead.
    We have a clear shot if we move quickly. We've got smoke 
downstairs. Stand by. Unknown smoke from downstairs. By the protesters?
    Is that route compromised?
    We have the--is secure. However, we will bypass some protesters 
that are being contained. There is smoke, unknown what kind of smoke it 
is. Copy.
    Clear. We're coming out now. All right? Make a way.

    Mrs. Luria. The President's National Security Council staff 
was listening to these developments and tracking them in real 
time.
    On the screen, you can see excerpts from the chat logs 
among the President's National Security Council staff. At 2:13, 
the staff learned that the rioters were kicking in the windows 
at the Capitol. Three minutes later, the staff said the Vice 
President was being pulled, which meant agents evacuated him 
from the Senate floor. At 2:24, the staff noted that the Secret 
Service agents at the Capitol did not ``sound good right now.''
    Earlier, you heard from a security professional who had 
been working in the White House complex on January 6th with 
access to relevant information and a responsibility to report 
to National security officials. We asked this person, what was 
meant by the comment that the Secret Service agents did not 
``sound good right now''?
    In the following clip of that testimony, which has been 
modified to protect the individual's identity, the professional 
discusses what they heard from listening to the incoming radio 
traffic that day.

    Ms. Dayananda. Okay. That last entry in the page is ``Service at 
the Capitol does not sound good right now.''
    Anonymous White House Security Official. Correct.
    Ms. Dayananda. What does that mean?
    Anonymous White House Security Official. Well, members of the VP 
detail at this time were starting to fear for their own lives. There 
were a lot of--there was a lot of yelling, a lot of--a lot of very 
personal calls over the radio. So it was disturbing. I don't like 
talking about it, but there were calls to say goodbye to family 
members, so on and so forth. It was getting--for whatever the reason 
was on the ground, the VP detail thought that this was about to get 
very ugly.
    Ms. Dayananda. And do--did you hear that over the radio?
    Anonymous White House Security Official. Correct.
    Ms. Dayananda. Okay. What was the response by the agents who were--
Secret Service agents who were there?
    Anonymous White House Security Official. Everybody kept saying--you 
know, at that point it was just reassurances or--I think there were 
discussions of reinforcements coming, but--but, again, it was just 
chaos, and they were just----
    Ms. Dayananda. Obviously, you've conveyed that's disturbing, but 
what--what prompted you to put it into an entry as it states there, 
``Service at the Capitol----
    Anonymous White House Security Official. They were running out of 
options, and they were getting nervous. It--it sounds like we're--that 
we came very close to either Service having to use lethal options or--
or worse. Like, at--at that point I don't know. Is the VP compromised? 
Is the detail--like, I--I don't know. Like, we didn't have visibility, 
but it doesn't--if they're screaming and--and saying things like say 
goodbye to the family, like, the floor needs to know this is going to 
on a whole `nother level soon.

    Mrs. Luria. As the next video shows, the rioters' anger was 
focused primarily on Vice President Mike Pence.

    Ms. Buhler. This woman came up to the side of us and she says, 
``Pence folded.'' So it was kind-of, like, okay, well--in my mind, I 
was thinking, well, that's it, you know. Well, my son-in-law looks at 
me and he says, ``I want to go in.''
                                 ______
                                 
    Stop the Steal Transmission. What percentage of the crowd is going 
to the Capitol?
    Ms. Watkins. 100 percent. It is--it has spread like wildfire that 
Pence has betrayed us, and everybody is marching on the Capitol, all 
million of us. It's insane.
                                 ______
                                 
    Voice. Mike Pence will not stick up for Donald Trump. Mike Pence, 
traitor.
    Voice. Mike Pence has screwed us in case you haven't heard yet.
    Voice. What happened? What happened?
    Voice. I keep hearing that Mike Pence has screwed us. That's the 
word. I keep hearing reports that Mike Pence has screwed us.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Childress. Did people appear angry as you were walking to the 
Capitol?
    Mr. Ayres. Yeah, a lot of people--a lot of people seemed like they 
were very upset.
    Mr. Childress. Tell us some of the things they were saying, if you 
recall.
    Mr. Ayres. Oh, there was--they were saying all type--you know, 
people were screaming all types of stuff. They were mad that Vice 
President Pence was going to accept the electorals. I mean, it was--I 
mean, it was a load of--if you can--if you can think it up, that's--you 
are hearing it.
                                 ______
                                 
    Voice. I believe that Vice President Pence was going to certify the 
electoral votes and--or not certify them. But I guess that's just 
changed. Correct? And it's a very big disappointment. I think there's 
several hundred thousand people here that are very disappointed.

    Mrs. Luria. President Trump did not try to calm his 
thousands of disappointed supporters. Instead, at almost the 
same moment violence was getting completely out of hand, Donald 
Trump sent his 2:24 tweet.
    The President said, ``Mike Pence didn't have the courage to 
do what should have been done to protect our Country and our 
Constitution.''
    Despite knowing the Capitol had been breached and the mob 
was in the building, President Trump called Mike Pence a coward 
and placed all the blame on him for not stopping the 
certification. He put a target on his own Vice President's 
back.
    Mr. Pottinger and Ms. Matthews, when we asked you about 
your reaction to seeing the 2:24 tweet in real time, you both 
used the same imagery to describe it: President Trump was 
adding fuel to the fire.
    Mr. Pottinger, you made the decision to resign after seeing 
this tweet. Can you please tell us why?
    Mr. Pottinger. Yes. So that was pretty soon after I--or 
shortly before I had gotten back to the White House. I had come 
from off-site. I began to see for the first time those images 
on TV of the chaos that was unfolding at the Capitol.
    One of my aides handed me a sheet of paper that contained a 
tweet that you just read. I read it and was quite disturbed by 
it. I was disturbed and worried to see that the President was 
attacking Vice President Pence for doing his constitutional 
duty.
    So, the tweet looked to me like the opposite of what we 
really needed at that moment, which was a de-escalation. That 
is why I had said earlier that it looked like fuel being poured 
on the fire.
    So, that was the moment that I decided that I was going to 
resign, that that would be my last day at the White House. I 
simply didn't want to be associated with the events that were 
unfolding on the Capitol.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you.
    Ms. Matthews, what was your reaction to the President's 
tweet about Vice President Pence?
    Ms. Matthews. So, it was obvious that the situation at the 
Capitol was violent and escalating quickly. So, I thought that 
the tweet about the Vice President was the last thing that was 
needed in that moment.
    I remember thinking that this was going to be bad for him 
to tweet this, because it was essentially him giving the green 
light to these people, telling them that what they were doing 
at the steps of the Capitol and entering the Capitol was okay, 
that they were justified in their anger.
    He shouldn't have been doing that. He should have been 
telling these people to go home and to leave and to condemn the 
violence that we were seeing.
    I am someone who has worked with him, you know, I worked on 
the campaign, traveled all around the country, going to 
countless rallies with him, and I have seen the impact that his 
words have on his supporters. They truly latch onto every word 
and every tweet that he says.
    So, I think that in that moment for him to tweet out the 
message about Mike Pence, it was him pouring gasoline on the 
fire and making it much worse.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you both.
    Let's watch what others also told us about their reactions 
to this tweet.

    Mr. Cipollone. I don't remember when exactly I heard about that 
tweet, but my reaction to it is that's a--a terrible tweet, and I 
disagreed with the sentiment, and I thought it was wrong.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Wood. What was your reaction when you saw that tweet?
    Mr. Deere. Extremely unhelpful.
    Mr. Wood. Why?
    Mr. Deere. It--it--it wasn't the message that we needed at--at that 
time. It wasn't going to--the--the scenes at the U.S. Capitol were only 
getting worse at that point. This was not going to help that.
    Mr. Wood. Were you concerned it could make it worse?
    Mr. Deere. Certainly.
                                 ______
                                 
    Vice Chair Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, what was your reaction when you 
saw this tweet?
    Ms. Hutchinson. As a staffer that works to always represent the 
administration to the best of my ability and to showcase the good 
things that he had done for the country, I remember feeling frustrated, 
disappointed, and really, it--it felt personal. I--I was really sad. As 
an American, I was disgusted. It was unpatriotic. It was un-American. 
We were watching the Capitol Building get defaced over a lie.

    Mrs. Luria. As you will see, at 2:26 the Vice President had 
to be evacuated to safety a second time and came within 40 feet 
of the rioters. The attack escalated quickly right after the 
tweet.

    Voices. [Unintelligible.]

    Mrs. Luria. During this chaos, what did President Trump do 
at that point? He went back to calling Senators to try to 
further delay the electoral count.
    While the Vice President was being evacuated from the 
Senate, President Trump called Senator Tommy Tuberville, one of 
his strongest supporters in the Senate. As Senator Tuberville 
later recalled, he had to end the call so that he could 
evacuate the Senate Chamber himself.
    Let's listen.

    Senator Tuberville. He called--didn't call my phone. Called 
somebody else and they handed it to me. And I--I basically told him--I 
said, ``Mr. President, we're--we're not doing much work here right now 
because they just took our Vice President out, and matter of fact, I'm 
gonna have to hang up on you. I've got to leave.''

    Mrs. Luria. Senator Josh Hawley also had to flee. Earlier 
that afternoon, before the joint session started, he walked 
across the East Front of the Capitol.
    As you can see in this photo, he raised his fist in 
solidarity with the protesters already amassing at the security 
gates.
    We spoke with the Capitol Police Officer who was out there 
at the time. She told us that Senator Hawley's gesture riled up 
the crowd. It bothered her greatly, because he was doing it in 
a safe space, protected by the officers and the barriers.
    Later that day, Senator Hawley fled after those protesters 
he helped to rile up stormed the Capitol.
    See for yourself.
    Think about had what we've seen: undeniable violence at the 
Capitol. The Vice President being evacuated to safety by the 
Secret Service. Senators running through the hallways of the 
Senate to get away from the mob.
    As the Commander-in-Chief, President Trump was oath- and 
duty-bound to protect the Capitol. His senior staff understood 
that.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Do--do you believe, Jared, that the President 
has an obligation to ensure a peaceful transfer of power?
    Mr. Kushner. Yes.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And do you think the President has an obligation 
to defend all three branches of our government?
    Mr. Kushner. I believe so.
                                 ______
                                 
    Vice Chair Cheney. And I assume you also would agree the President 
has a particular obligation to take care that the laws be faithfully 
executed.
    Mr. Cipollone. That is one of the President's obligations, correct.
                                 ______
                                 
    Vice Chair Cheney. No, I mean, I asked what his duty is.
    General Kellogg. Well, I mean, there's a--there's a constitutional 
duty--I--what he has--he's the Commander in Chief, and that was the--
the--that was my biggest issue with him as National Security Advisor.

    Mrs. Luria. Rather than uphold his duty to the 
Constitution, President Trump allowed the mob to achieve the 
delay that he hoped would keep him in power.
    I reserve.
    Vice Chair Cheney. The gentlewoman reserves.
    I request that those in the hearing room remain seated 
until the Capitol Police have escorted Members and witnesses 
from the room.
    I now declare the Committee in recess for a period of 
approximately 10 minutes.
    [Accordingly, at 9:11 p.m., the Committee recessed until 
9:24 p.m., when it was called to order by the Vice Chair.]
    Vice Chair Cheney. I now recognize the gentleman from 
Illinois.
    Mr. Kinzinger. We left at the recess just after President 
Trump's 2:24 tweet attacking the Vice President. By this time, 
the President had been in his dining room for an hour.
    I want you to just think of what you would have done if you 
were in his shoes and had the power to end the violence. You 
would have immediately and forcefully told the rioters to stop 
and leave, like, stop and leave, done.
    As you heard, that's exactly what his senior staff had been 
urging him do. But he resisted and he kept resisting for 
another almost 2 hours.
    In the mean time, all the President did was post two 
tweets, one at 2:38 and the other at 3:13. One said ``stay 
peaceful.'' The other said ``remain peaceful.''
    But the President already knew that the mob was attacking 
the police and had invaded the Capitol. Neither tweet condemned 
the violence or told the mob to leave the Capitol and disperse.
    To appreciate how obvious it was that President Trump was 
not meeting this moment, it is helpful to look at the real-time 
reactions of his own son, Don Jr., to the first tweet captured 
in a series of text messages with Mark Meadows. I warn the 
audience that these messages contain some strong language.
    As you can see, Don Jr. first texted Mr. Meadows at 2:53. 
He wrote, ``He's got to condemn this shit. ASAP. The Capitol 
police tweet is not enough.''
    Mr. Meadows replied, ``I am pushing it hard. I agree.''
    Don Jr. responded, ``This [is] one you go to the mattresses 
on. They will try to fuck his entire legacy on this if it gets 
worse.''
    Here's what Don Jr. told us he meant by ``go to the 
mattresses.''

    Mr. Tonolli. At 2:58 when you say that he need--that Mr. Meadows 
needs to go to the mattresses on this issue, when you say ``go to the 
mattresses,'' what does that mean?
    Mr. Trump, Jr. It's just a reference for going all in. I think it's 
a ``Godfather'' reference.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Sean Hannity agreed, and he also turned to 
Mark Meadows for help after the President's second tweet.
    As you can see, Mr. Hannity texted at 3:31 to say Trump 
needed to deliver a statement to the Nation telling the rioters 
to leave the Capitol. Mr. Meadows respond that he was ``on 
it.''
    Don Jr. and Sean Hannity were not the only ones who 
implored Mr. Meadows to get the President to speak to the 
Nation and tell the mob to leave, to go home, go home. 
Throughout the attack, Mr. Meadows received texts from 
Republican Members of Congress, from current and former Trump 
administration officials, from media personalities, and from 
friends. Like President Trump's staff, they knew President 
Trump had to speak publicly to get the mob to stop.
    Let's look at just a few of these text messages.
    Fox News personality Laura Ingraham said, ``The President 
needs to tell the people in the Capitol to go home.'' Former 
Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney urged, ``Mark, he needs to stop 
this now.'' Fox News personality Brian Kilmeade said, ``Please 
get him on TV. Destroying everything that you guys have 
accomplished.''
    When we interviewed White House Counsel Pat Cipollone, he 
told us that he knew that the President's two tweets were not 
enough.
    Let's listen to what he said.

    Mr. Heaphy. I think the question is, did you believe that the 
tweets were not anything about your advice to the President?
    Mr. Cipollone. No, I believe more needed to be done. I believed 
that a public statement needed to be made.
                                 ______
                                 
    Vice Chair Cheney. When you talk about others on the staff thinking 
more should be done or thinking that the President needed to tell 
people to go home, who--who would you put in that category?
    Mr. Cipollone. Well, I--I would put Pat Philbin, Eric Herschmann, 
overall Mark Meadows, Ivanka; once Jared got there, Jared; General 
Kellogg. I'm probably missing some, but those are--Kayleigh, I think, 
was--was there, but I don't--Dan Scavino.
    Vice Chair Cheney. And who on the staff did not want people to 
leave the Capitol?
    Mr. Cipollone. On the staff?
    Vice Chair Cheney. In the White House, how about?
    Mr. Cipollone. I don't--I--I can't think of anybody, you know, on 
that day who didn't want people to get out of the--the Capitol once 
the--you know, particularly once the violence started, no. I mean----
    Mr. Schiff. What about the President?
    Vice Chair Cheney. Yeah.
    Mr. Cipollone. She said the staff, so I answered.
    Vice Chair Cheney. No, I said in the White House.
    Mr. Cipollone. Oh, I'm sorry. I--I apologize. I thought you said 
who--who else on the staff. I--I--I can't reveal communications, but 
obviously, I think, you know--yeah.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Let's pause on that last statement. Although 
Pat Cipollone is being careful about executive privilege, there 
really is no ambiguity about what he said. Almost everybody 
wanted President Trump to instruct the mob to disperse. 
President Trump refused.
    To understand how inadequate the President's tweets were, 
let's examine his 2:38 tweet in more detail. For context, here 
is what was happening at that time.

    Voice. They broke the glass.
    Voice. Everybody, stay down. Get down.
                                 ______
                                 
    United States Capitol Police Transmission. Doors barricaded. 
There's people flooding the hallways outside. We have no way out.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Welch. We were just told that there has been tear gas in the 
rotunda, and we're being instructed to each of us get a gas mask.
                                 ______
                                 
    Fox News Host. We went from a peaceful protest, and this is a very 
dangerous situation right now. That there are--I'm being told these 
protesters on the inside are around both Chambers, and there is now 
tear gas inside the Capitol Rotunda. In fact, Members locked in the 
House are being instructed to put on masks.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Ms. Matthews, after President Trump's tweet 
about Vice President Pence, you told us you spoke to--
immediately you spoke to Kayleigh McEnany. What did you tell 
her and where did she go afterwards?
    Ms. Matthews. After the tweet about the Vice President, I 
found Kayleigh and told her that I thought the President needed 
to immediately send out a tweet that condemned the violence 
that we were seeing and that there needed to be a call to 
action to tell these people to leave the Capitol. She agreed 
and walked over to the Oval dining room to find the President.
    Mr. Kinzinger. We interviewed Ms. McEnany and others who 
were in the dining room with the President urging him to put 
out a statement.
    Ms. Matthews, Ms. McEnany told us she came right back to 
the press office after meeting with the President about this 
particular tweet. What did she tell you about what happened in 
that dining room?
    Ms. Matthews. When she got back, she told me that a tweet 
had been sent out. I told her that I thought the tweet did not 
go far enough, that I thought there needed to be a call to 
action and he needed to condemn the violence.
    We were in a room full of people, but people weren't paying 
attention. So, she looked directly at me and in a hushed tone 
shared with me that the President did not want to include any 
sort of mention of peace in that tweet and that it took some 
convincing on their part, those who were in the room.
    She said that there was a back-and-forth going over 
different phrases to find something that he was comfortable 
with. It wasn't until Ivanka Trump suggested the phrase ``stay 
peaceful'' that he finally agreed to include it.
    Mr. Kinzinger. The President resisted writing ``stay 
peaceful'' in a tweet. He told Mark Meadows that the rioters 
were doing what they should be doing. The rioters understood 
they were doing what President Trump wanted them to do.
    President Trump's message was heard clearly by Stop the 
Steal organizer Ali Alexander.
    At 2:38 he told another organizer, ``POTUS is not ignorant 
of what his words would do.''
    Rioters storming the Capitol also heard President Trump's 
message. In this video, you will see surveillance footage from 
the Rotunda that shows a group of Oath Keepers, including 
Jessica Watkins, who was been charged with seditious 
conspiracy.
    You will hear her walkie-talkie communications with others 
as they share intelligence and communicate about President 
Trump's 2:38 tweet in real time. Again, we warn the audience 
that this clip also contains strong language.

    Voice. CNN just said that they evacuated all Members of Congress 
into a safety room.
    Voice. There is no safe place in the United States for any of these 
motherfuckers right now, let me tell you.
    Voice. I hope they understand that we are not joking around.
    Voice. Military principle 105, military principle 105, cave means 
grave.
    Voice. Trump just tweeted, ``Please support our Capitol Police. 
They are on our side. Do not harm them.''
    Voice. That's saying a lot by what he didn't say. He didn't say not 
to do anything to the Congressmen.
    Voice. Well, he did not ask them to stand down. He just said stand 
by the Capitol Police. They are on our side and they are good people. 
So it's getting real down there. I got it on TV, and it's--it's looking 
pretty friggin' radical to me.
    Voice. CNN said that Trump has egged this on, that he is egging it 
on, and that he is watching the country burn 2 weeks before he leaves 
office. He is not leaving office. I don't give a shit what they say.
    Ms. Watkins. And we are in the mezzanine. We are in the main dome 
right now. We are rocking it. They're throwing grenades. They're 
frickin' shooting people with paintballs, but we're in here.
    Voice. Be safe, be safe. God bless and Godspeed and keep going.
    Voice. Get it, Jess. Do your shit. This is what we fucking lived up 
for, everything we fucking trained for.
    Voice. Took over the Capitol, overran the Capitol.
    Voice. We're in the fucking Capitol Complex.

    Mr. Kinzinger. We have now seen how President Trump's 
supporters reacted to his tweets.
    Mr. Pottinger, you told us that you consider the tweets 
sent to this point to be ``wholly inadequate . . . given the 
urgency of the crisis.''
    What, in your view, would have been needed?
    Mr. Pottinger. Yes. It was insufficient. I think what--you 
could count me among those who was hoping to see an unequivocal 
strong statement clearing out the Capitol, telling people to 
stand down, leave, go home. I think that's what we were hoping 
for.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So, something a lot more kind-of definitive 
and not ambiguous.
    Mr. Pottinger. Yes.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Because he has that power over his folks.
    Ms. Matthews, you told us about a colleague who said during 
the attack that the President should not condemn the violence. 
Can you please tell us about that moment and your reaction?
    Ms. Matthews. Yes. So a conversation started in the press 
office after the President sent out those two tweets that I 
deemed were insufficient. A colleague suggested that the 
President shouldn't condemn the violence because they thought 
it would be ``handing a win to the media,'' if he were to 
condemn his supporters.
    I disagreed. I thought that we should condemn the violence 
and condemn it unequivocally. I thought that he needed to 
include a call to action and to tell these people to go home. A 
debate ensued over it.
    I became visibly frustrated and my colleagues were well 
aware of that. I couldn't believe that we were arguing over 
this in the middle of the West Wing, talking about the politics 
of a tweet, being concerned with handing the media a win, when 
we had just watched all of that violence unfold at the Capitol.
    So, I motioned up at the TV. I said, ``Do you think it 
looks like we're F'ing winning? Because I don't think it 
does.''
    I again reiterated that I thought that the President needed 
to condemn the violence, because it didn't matter if it was 
coming from the left or the right, that you should condemn 
violence 100 percent of the time.
    Mr. Kinzinger. We have heard this evening how everyone in 
the President's orbit was pushing him to do more, to tell the 
mob to leave the Capitol.
    One of these people--one of those people was Republican 
Leader Kevin McCarthy. He managed to get the President on the 
phone and told him to call off his supporters.
    As you will hear, the President refused. So, Leader 
McCarthy reached out for help to Ivanka Trump, who was at the 
White House, and Jared Kushner, who that afternoon had just 
arrived back on a flight from the Middle East.

    Ms. Lucier. So, at some point in the afternoon, Mr. McCarthy placed 
a phone call to Mr. Scavino's desk line, and it was transferred to the 
President. Is that correct?
    Ms. Michael. That's generally what I recall.
    Ms. Lucier. Okay. Were you involved in making that--transferring 
that call?
    Ms. Michael. I--I--yes.
    Ms. Lucier. Okay. Where was the President at the time that he took 
that call?
    Ms. Michael. He was in the dining room.
                                 ______
                                 
    Fox News Host. Would you personally reach out to the President for 
more support?
    Mr. McCarthy. I've already talked to the President. I called him. I 
think we need to make a statement, make sure that we can calm 
individuals down.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. Did Mr. McCarthy indicate that he had been in touch 
with President Trump?
    Mr. Short. He indicated that he had had some conversation. I don't 
recall whether it was with the--with the President or with somebody at 
the White House. But I think he--he expressed frustration that--not 
taking the circumstance as seriously as they should in that moment.
                                 ______
                                 
    Ms. Herrera Beutler. You know, I asked Kevin McCarthy, who's the 
Republican Leader, about this, and--and he said he called Donald--he 
finally got through to Donald Trump, and he said, ``You have got to get 
on TV. You've got to get on Twitter. You've got to call these people 
off.'' You know what the President said to him? This is as it's 
happening. He said, ``Well, Kevin, these aren't my people. You know, 
these are--these are Antifa.''
    And Kevin responded and said, ``No, they're your people. They 
literally just came through my office windows, and my staff are running 
for cover. I mean, they're running for their lives. You need to call 
them off.'' And the President's response to Kevin, to me, was chilling. 
He said, ``Well, Kevin, I guess they're just more upset about the 
election, you know, theft than you are.''
    And that's--you know, you've seen widespread reports of--of Kevin 
McCarthy and the President having a--basically a swearing conversation. 
That's when the swearing commenced, because the President was basically 
saying, nah, I--I'm okay with this.
                                 ______
                                 
    CBS News Host. Leader McCarthy, the President of the United States 
has a Briefing Room steps from the Oval Office. It is--the cameras are 
hot 24/7, as you know. Why hasn't he walked down and said that now?
    Mr. McCarthy. I conveyed to the President what I think is best to 
do, and I'm hopeful the President will do it.
    CBS News Host. And have you spoken with his chief of staff?
    Mr. McCarthy. I've spoken to the President. I've spoken to other 
people in there and to the White House as well.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Tonolli. Who else reached out to Mr. Trump that you know of 
that afternoon about the attack on the Capitol?
    Ms. Radford. I believe at one point McCarthy did.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Kushner. So, my--I heard my phone ringing, turn the shower off, 
saw it was Leader McCarthy, who I had a good relationship with. He told 
me it was getting really ugly over at the Capitol and said, ``Please, 
you know, anything you could do to help, I would appreciate it.''
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Kushner. I don't recall a specific ask, just anything you could 
do. Again, I got the sense that, you know, they were--they were--you 
know, they were scared.
    Mr. Heaphy. ``They'' meaning Mr.--Leader McCarthy and people on the 
Hill because of the violence?
    Mr. Kushner. That he--he was scared, yes.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Think about that. Leader McCarthy, who was 
one of the President's strongest supporters, was scared and 
begging for help. President Trump turned him down. So, he tried 
to call the President's children.
    Republican House Member Mike Gallagher also implored the 
President to call off the attack.

    Mr. Gallagher. Mr. President, you have got to stop this. You are 
the only person who can call this off. Call it off. The election is 
over. Call it off.

    Mr. Kinzinger. President-elect Joe Biden also went live on 
TV to demand that President Trump tell the mob to leave.

    President-elect Biden. I call on President Trump to go on national 
television now, to fulfill his oath and defend the Constitution, and 
demand an end to this siege.

    Mr. Kinzinger. There was a desperate scramble for everyone 
to get President Trump to do anything. All this occurred and 
the President still did not act.
    I yield to my friend from Virginia.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you, Mr. Kinzinger.
    President Trump finally relented to the pleas from his 
staff, his family, and from Capitol Hill for him to do 
something more at 4:17, 187 minutes, more than 3 hours after he 
stopped speaking at the Ellipse, after he stopped speaking to a 
mob that he had sent armed to the Capitol.
    That is when he tweeted a video telling the rioters to go 
home, while also telling them that they were special and that 
he loved them.
    By that time, although the violence was far from over, law 
enforcement had started to turn the tide, reinforcements were 
on the way, and elected officials were in secure locations. The 
writing was already on the wall: The rioters would not succeed.
    Here is what was showing on Fox News, the channel the 
President was watching all afternoon.

    Fox News Host. Back to Bret Baier with more information now. Bret, 
what do you have?
    Mr. Baier. You know, our Pentagon team--Jen Griffin, Lucas 
Tomlinson--confirming the Defense Department has now mobilized the 
entire D.C. National Guard, 1,800 troops. Takes several hours, as I was 
mentioning before, to get them up and running. The Army Secretary, Ryan 
McCarthy, is setting up a headquarters at the FBI. You just heard from 
David Spunt that the FBI is also sending troops to the Capitol.

    Mrs. Luria. It is no coincidence then that President Trump 
finally gave in and went out to the Rose Garden at 4:03. His 
staff had prepared a script for him to read, but he refused to 
use it.
    As you can see on the screen, you can see the script is 
stamped ``President Has Seen.'' The script said, ``I am asking 
you to leave the Capitol Hill region NOW and go home in a 
peaceful way.''
    The President was urged to stick to this script, but he 
spoke off the cuff.
    Eric Herschmann and Nick Luna went with the President to 
film the message in the Rose Garden. Let's hear what they had 
to say and see the never-before-seen raw footage of the 
President recording this video message.

    Mr. George. Ultimately, these remarks that we're looking at here in 
Exhibit 25 were not the remarks that the President delivered in the 
Rose Garden. Do you know why the President decided not to use these?
    Mr. Luna. I--I don't know, sir. No, I do not know why.
    Mr. George. Did the President use any written remarks, to your 
knowledge, or did he just go off the cuff?
    Mr. Luna. To my knowledge, it was off the cuff, sir.
                                 ______
                                 
    White House Staff [off-mic]. When you're ready, sir.
    President Trump. You tell me when.
    White House Staff. When you're ready, sir.
    President Trump. Who's behind me?
    White House Staff. He's gone. He's gone. We're all clear now.
    President Trump. I know your pain. I know you're hurt. We had a 
election--let me say. I know your pain. I know you're hurt. We had an 
election that was stolen from us. It was a landslide election and 
everyone knows it, especially the other side, but you have to go home 
now. We have to have peace. We have to have law and order. We have to 
respect our great people in law and order.
    We don't want anybody hurt. It's a very tough period of time. 
There's never been a time like this where such a thing happened where 
they could take it away from all of us, from me, from you, from our 
country. This was a fraudulent election, but we can't play into the 
hands of these people.
    We have to have peace. So go home. We love you. You're very 
special. You've seen what happens. You see the way others are treated 
that are so bad and so evil. I know how you feel but go home and go 
home in peace.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Kushner. When I got there, basically the President just had 
finished filming the video, and I think he was basically retiring for 
the day.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Wood. Was there any discussion about the President releasing a 
second video that day?
    Mr. Herschmann. Not that I recall. When--when he finished his 
video, I think everyone was, like, day's over. People were pretty 
drained.
    Mr. Wood. Were pretty what?
    Mr. Herschmann. Drained.
    Mr. Wood. When we say day--day over are we--there were still people 
in the Capitol at that point, weren't there?
    Mr. Herschmann. There were people in the Capitol, but I believe by 
this stage law enforcement--I'd have to go back and look, but I believe 
law enforcement was either there or moving in or going to take charge. 
And I just think people were emotionally drained by the time that 
videotape was done.

    Mrs. Luria. Emotionally drained? At the White House?
    Here is what was happening at the same time at the Capitol. 
We warn the audience that this clip also contains strong 
language and violence.

    Voice. Keep pushing. Don't lose the momentum. [Indistinguishable.]
    Metropolitan Police Department Transmission. We've got another 
officer unconscious at the terrace. West Terrace.
    Voice. Everybody, we need gas masks. We need weapons. We need 
strong, angry patriots to help our boys. They don't want to leave.

    Mrs. Luria. While President Trump refused to even lift 
another finger to help, other leaders honored their oaths and 
acted to clear the Capitol and resume the joint session.
    For instance, here are never-before-seen photos and video 
of congressional leaders in action during the attack. The video 
is a portion of a call they had at approximately 4:45 with 
Acting Secretary of Defense Chris Miller.

    Senator McConnell. We're not going to let these people keep us from 
finishing our business. So we need you to get the building cleared. 
Give us the okay so we can go back in session and finish up the 
people's business as soon as possible.
    Acting Secretary Miller. Amen, sir.
    Senator Schumer. Mr. Secretary, it's Senator Schumer. Some people 
here in the Capitol Police believe it would take us several days to 
secure the building. Do you agree with that analysis?
    Acting Secretary Miller. I'm not on the ground, but I do not agree 
with that analysis.
    Senator Schumer. So what is the earliest that we could safely 
resume our proceedings in the Senate and House Chambers--the earliest 
we could safely resume?
    Acting Secretary Miller. I--here's my assessment, but I prefer to 
be on the ground, which I personally would prefer to be right now, but 
I need to be here. I would say, best case, we're looking at 4 to 5 
hours.

    Mrs. Luria. The Vice President also worked the phones from 
his own secure evacuation location, including conversations 
with Acting Secretary of Defense Miller and other military 
leaders--well past President Trump's 4:17 video.
    Let's look at some never-before-seen photographs of the 
Vice President during this critical time and hear about the 
Vice President's conversation with military leaders to secure 
the Capitol and ensure everyone was safe.

    General Milley. Vice President Pence? There were two or three calls 
with Vice President Pence. He was very animated, and he issued very 
explicit, very direct, unambiguous orders. There was no question about 
that. And he was--and I can get you the exact quotes, I guess, from 
some of our records somewhere, but he was very animated, very direct, 
very firm and--to Secretary Miller: ``Get the military down here, get 
the Guard down here, put down this situation,'' et cetera.

    Mrs. Luria. As you heard earlier in the hearing, the 
President did not call the Vice President or anyone in the 
military, Federal law enforcement, or D.C. government, not a 
single person.
    But General Milley did hear from Mark Meadows. The contrast 
between that call and his calls with Vice President Pence tells 
you everything you need to know about President Trump's 
dereliction of duty.
    Let's listen.

    General Milley. He said--this is from memory. He said, ``We have--
we have to kill the narrative that the Vice President is making all the 
decisions. We need to establish the narrative that, you know, that the 
President is still in charge and that things are steady or stable.'' Or 
words to that effect. I immediately interpret that as politics, 
politics, politics. Red flags for me personally, no action, but I 
remember it distinctly and--and I don't do political narratives.

    Mrs. Luria. So, while President Trump and his advisers were 
``drained,'' other leaders upheld their oaths to do the right 
thing. Maybe it was exhausting to get the President to put out 
that video, but think about the law enforcement officers who 
were attacked by the mob that day that President Trump had 
summoned them himself to Washington.
    What about President Trump? He watched TV, tweeted, called 
Senators to try to delay the count of electoral votes, called 
Rudy Giuliani, and argued with his staff who were insisting 
that he should call off the attack.
    Ms. Matthews, what was your reaction to President Trump's 
message to the mob at 4:17?
    Ms. Matthews. I was struck by the fact that he chose to 
begin the video by pushing the lie that there was a stolen 
election. As the video went on, I felt a small sense of relief 
because he finally told these people to go home.
    But that was immediately followed up by him saying, ``We 
love you. You're very special.'' That was disserving to me, 
because he didn't distinguish between those that peacefully 
attended his speech earlier that day and those that we watched 
cause violence at the Capitol.
    Instead, he told the people who we had just watched storm 
our Nation's Capitol with the intent on overthrowing our 
democracy, violently attack police officers, and chant heinous 
things like, ``Hang Mike Pence,'' ``We love you. You're very 
special.''
    As a spokesperson for him, I knew that I would be asked to 
defend that. To me, his refusal to act and call off the mob 
that day and his refusal to condemn the violence was 
indefensible.
    So, I knew that I would be resigning that evening. So, I 
finished out the workday, went home and called my loved ones to 
tell them of my decision, and resigned that evening.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you.
    Indefensible.
    Let's hear what some of your colleagues in the press office 
told us about their reaction to the same 4:17 message.

    Mr. Deere. I felt like it was the absolute bare minimum of 
what could have been said at that point for something on 
camera.
    Mr. Wood. What else do you think should have been said?
    Mr. Deere. So a more forceful--a more forceful dismissal of 
the violence, a more forceful command to go home, a more 
forceful respect for law enforcement, even a comparison to the 
respect that we had given law enforcement as it relates to what 
was done to them in the prior summer. And I thought it was 
important that an acknowledgment be given to the U.S. Capitol 
Building itself, what it's a symbol of, what it means, not only 
to the people that work there, but to the American people 
generally and the work of Congress that, by law, needed to be 
conducted that day.
                                ------                                

    Mr. Wood. Do you wish in hindsight that the President had 
asked the protesters to leave the Capitol earlier than he ended 
up asking them to do that?
    Ms. McEnany. Of course, I would have loved if the go home 
message would have happened earlier in the day.

    Mrs. Luria. The President's words matter. We know that many 
of the rioters were listening to President Trump.
    We heard from one last week, Stephen Ayres. Let's listen to 
what he had to say about the 4:17 message from the President 
and see how rioters reacted to the President's message in real 
time.

    Mr. Ayres. Well, when we were there, as soon as that come out, 
everybody started talking about it, and that's--it seemed like it 
started to disperse, you know, some of the crowd----
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Angeli. I'm here delivering the President's message. Donald 
Trump has asked everybody to go home.
    Voice. That's our order.
                                 ______
                                 
    Voice. He says, go home. He says, go home.
    Voice. Yeah, he said to go home.

    Mrs. Luria. But just as Mr. Ayres said, police were still 
fending off the last throes of the brutal assault.
    I yield to the gentleman from Illinois.
    Mr. Kinzinger. While everyone else was working to get 
Congress back in session, what did President Trump do? At 6:01, 
just 1 minute after the city-wide curfew went into effect, he 
posted his last tweet of the day.
    After officers engaged in multiple hours of hand-to-hand 
combat, with over 100 of them sustaining injuries, President 
Trump tweeted at 6:01 and justified the violence as a natural 
response to the election.
    He said, ``These are the things and events that happen when 
a sacred landslide victory is so unceremoniously & viciously 
stripped away from great patriots who have been badly & 
unfairly treated for so long. Go home with love & in peace. 
Remember this day forever!''
    He called the mob ``great patriots.'' He told people to 
remember the day forever. He showed absolutely no remorse.
    A few minutes later, at 6:27, the President left the dining 
room and he went up to the White House residence for the night.
    On the screen is the last photograph of the President that 
night as he went into the residence. As he was gathering his 
things in the dining room to leave, President Trump reflected 
on the day's events with a White House employee. This was the 
same employee who had met President Trump in the Oval Office 
after he returned from the Ellipse. President Trump said 
nothing to the employee about the attack. He said only, ``Mike 
Pence let me down.''
    Ms. Matthews, what was your reaction to President Trump's 
6:01 tweet?
    Ms. Matthews. At that point I had already made the decision 
to resign and this tweet just further cemented my decision. I 
thought that January 6, 2021, was one of the darkest days in 
our Nation's history and President Trump was treating it as a 
celebratory occasion with that tweet. So, it just further 
cemented my decision to resign.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Others agreed with your assessment of that 
tweet. Let's look at what they had to say.

    Mr. George. Who asked you about this tweet before it was sent?
    Mr. Luna. The President.
    Mr. George. Tell us about that conversation and everything that you 
said and he said to the best of your recollection.
    Mr. Luna. Sure. So he said, ``What do you think of this?'' And I 
believe I saw the text message or the--on his phone. And I--I remember 
saying to him the wording on the first sentence--I guess it's one long 
sentence. But the wording on the first sentence would lead some to 
believe that potentially he had something to do with the events that 
happened at the Capitol.
    Mr. George. And what did he say?
    Mr. Luna. I don't recall him saying anything in response to that, 
and I believe that was the end of the conversation.
    Mr. George. Did he change anything in light of your comments?
    Mr. Luna. No, sir, he did not.
    Mr. George. And what about this made you think that someone might 
perceive the President having a role in the violence at the Capitol?
    Mr. Luna. It--it was my interpretation of the words. I mean, I'm--
I'm not a--you know, I don't write speeches or anything, but the 
phrase, ``these are the things that happen,'' to me, sounded as if--as 
if culpability was associated with it. To me.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Murtaugh. I don't think it's a patriotic act to attack the 
Capitol, but I have no idea how to characterize the people other than 
they trespassed, destroyed property, and assaulted the U.S. Capitol. I 
think calling them ``patriots'' is, let's say, a stretch to say the 
least.
    Mr. Aganga-Williams. Is that all it is, a stretch? Or just flatly 
wrong?
    Mr. Murtaugh. I don't think it's a patriotic act to attack the U.S. 
Capitol.
    Mr. Aganga-Williams. Would you call it unpatriotic?
    Mr. Murtaugh. Criminal. Unpatriotic, sure.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Cipollone. What happened at the Capitol cannot be justified in 
any form or fashion. It was wrong and it was tragic and a lot--and it--
and it was a terrible day. It was a terrible day for this country.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Jacob. I thought it was inappropriate.
    Mr. Wood. Why?
    Mr. Jacob. To my mind, it was a day that should be remembered in 
infamy. That wasn't the tenor of this tweet.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Despite the violence of the day, the effort 
to delay the certification continued. That evening, Rudy 
Giuliani called several of President Trump's closest political 
allies in the hour before the joint session resumed--
Representative Jim Jordan and Senators Marsha Blackburn, Tommy 
Tuberville, Bill Haggerty, Lindsey Graham, Josh Hawley, and Ted 
Cruz.
    We know why Mr. Giuliani was calling them, because at 7:02 
he left a voicemail for Senator Tuberville, which later became 
public.
    Let's listen to just the start of it.

    Mr. Giuliani. Hello. Senator Tuberville? Or I should say Coach 
Tuberville. This is Rudy Giuliani, President's lawyer. I'm calling you 
because I want to discuss with you how they're trying to rush this 
hearing and how we need you, our Republican friends, to try to just 
slow it down so we can get these legislatures to get more information 
to you.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. Giuliani did not even mention the attack 
on the Capitol. Instead, he was pushing on behalf of President 
Trump to get Members of Congress to further delay the 
certification.
    Even though some Members did proceed with objections, Vice 
President Pence and Congress stood firm and successfully 
concluded the joint session in the early morning hours of 
January 7th.
    Here is some of what members of the President's party said 
in the days and weeks after the attack.

    Senator McConnell. There's no question, none, that President Trump 
is practically and morally responsible for provoking the events of the 
day. No question about it. The people who stormed this building 
believed they were acting on the wishes and instructions of their 
President, and having that belief was a foreseeable consequence of the 
growing crescendo of false statements, conspiracy theories, and 
reckless hyperbole which the defeated President kept shouting into the 
largest megaphone on planet Earth.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. McCarthy. The violence, destruction, and chaos we saw earlier 
was unacceptable, undemocratic, and un-American. It was the saddest day 
I've ever had as serving as a Member of this institution.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Roy. Madam Speaker, today the people's House was attacked which 
is an attack on the Republic itself. There is no excuse for it. A woman 
died, and people need to go to jail. And the President should never 
have spun up certain Americans to believe something that simply cannot 
be.

    Mr. Kinzinger. Well after 3 in the morning, Congress 
certified the 2020 election results. Soon after, this statement 
by President Trump was posted on Dan Scavino's Twitter account 
because the President's account by now had been suspended.
    As you can see, President Trump stuck with his Big Lie that 
the election was stolen. But he did say there would be an 
orderly transition. We learned, though, that the statement was 
not necessarily his idea.
    Jason Miller, a campaign adviser, told us that after the 
joint session started, he heard nothing from President Trump or 
the White House about assuring the Nation that the transfer of 
power would take place. So, Mr. Miller took it upon himself to 
draft a statement and called the President at 9:23 that night 
to convince him to put it out.
    Let's listen to what he had to say about the call.

    Mr. Heaphy. Did he disagree with something that you had put in the 
statement, some particular word or phrase that--that he did not want 
included?
    Mr. Jason Miller. I'd say just that he wanted to say ``peaceful'' 
transition, and I said that ship's kind-of already sailed so we're 
going to say ``orderly'' transition. That was--that was about the 
extent of disagreement or--or pushback from the conversation.

    Mr. Kinzinger. The last person President Trump spoke to by 
phone that night was Johnny McEntee, his head of personnel. Mr. 
McEntee told us that they talked about the events of the day 
and the multiple resignations by administration officials.
    The decision whether to resign was one that weighed heavily 
on people in the administration. On the one hand, people like 
Mr. Pottinger and Ms. Matthews here, as proud as they were to 
have served, refused to be associated with President Trump's 
dereliction of duty. But others were sincerely worried that 
leaving President Trump to his own devices would put the 
country at continued risk.
    Listen to what we heard about that tension from Pat 
Cipollone, from General Mark Milley, and Eugene Scalia, who was 
the Secretary of Labor.

    Mr. Cipollone. And then after that some people were resigning, 
obviously, over January 6th. We know who they--they were. Did I 
consider it? Yes. Did I do it? No.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Cipollone. Concerned about is if people in the counsel's office 
left, who would--who would replace me? And I had some concerns that it 
might be somebody who, you know, had been giving bad advice.
                                 ______
                                 
    Secretary Scalia. On the morning of the 7th, the decision I arrived 
at was that the most constructive thing I could think of was to seek a 
meeting of the Cabinet. You know, I thought that trying to work within 
the administration to steady the ship was likely to have, you know, 
greater value than simply resigning, after which point I would have 
been powerless to really affect things with the administration.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Cipollone. Eugene thought that there should be a Cabinet 
meeting.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Heaphy. Do you know why Mark thought it would not be 
productive?
    Mr. Cipollone. I--I--I don't remember why. I--I think it probably 
had something to do with Mark's view of how the President might react 
and that he--you know, but things like that.
                                 ______
                                 
    General Milley. There was a couple of the calls where, you know, 
Meadows and/or Pompeo, but more Meadows, you know, how--how is the 
President doing? Like, Pompeo might say, ``How's the President doing?'' 
And Meadows would say, ``Well, he's in a really dark place.'' Like 
here's one, for example, on the 7th of January. So this is a day after, 
right? ``POTUS is very emotional and in a bad place,'' Meadows.

    Mr. Kinzinger. As you heard Secretary Scalia wanted 
President Trump to convene a Cabinet meeting. He put his 
request in a memo to the President, and here is what it said.
    You can see that Secretary Scalia recommended that the 
President ``No longer publicly question the election results. 
After Wednesday, no one can deny this is harmful.''
    Secretary Scalia also highlighted the importance of the 
public knowing the President would invoke his Cabinet in 
decision making and not ``certain private individuals.''
    Though Secretary Scalia did not say it, he was referring to 
Rudy Giuliani and the rest of the so-called clown car working 
with President Trump to try to overturn the election. Secretary 
Scalia understood that the President needed to do more to 
reassure the public about the last few weeks of the Trump 
administration.
    Mr. Pottinger, when you made the decision to resign, did 
you walk out of the White House immediately?
    Mr. Pottinger. No. I wanted to first talk to my immediate 
boss that was the National Security Advisor, Robert O'Brien. 
Robert O'Brien was traveling on the 6th. I reached him at about 
4:30 p.m. and told him that I was submitting my resignation. He 
accepted the resignation. But he also asked whether I could 
stay until he could get back to the White House, and I agreed 
to that. We both wanted to make sure that I was leaving in a 
responsible way.
    We still have foreign adversaries to worry about, you know, 
hackers, terrorists, nation-states, and I did not want to leave 
my chair empty given that I was the top National security 
staffer in the White House. So, I ended up staying at my desk 
through the night. When Robert O'Brien arrived back at the 
White House the next morning, the morning of the 7th, I 
debriefed with him and left for the last time.
    Mr. Kinzinger. So, you and I both share a passion for 
National security of our country. Can you share with me, what 
is your view on how January 6th impacted our National security?
    Mr. Pottinger. Well, when you have a Presidential 
transition, even under the best circumstances, it's a time of 
vulnerability. It's a time of vulnerability. For--when you have 
a contested election, I was certainly concerned that some of 
our adversaries would be tempted to probe or test U.S. resolve. 
As an example, in late December, the Iranian Government 
attacked the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. They did that using some 
of their terrorist proxies.
    President Trump did handle that. He sent a very clear 
warning to the ayatollah and his regime, which I think had a 
useful effect. I think that we would have handled other threats 
of that nature, and luckily no other threats materialized 
before the inauguration on the 20th.
    But our National security was harmed in a different way by 
the 6th of January, and that is that it--I think it emboldened 
our enemies by helping give them ammunition to feed a narrative 
that our system of government doesn't work, that the United 
States is in decline. China, the Putin regime in Russia, 
Tehran, they're fond of pushing those kinds of narratives.
    By the way, they're wrong. You know, we've been hearing for 
the entirety of U.S. history from kings and despots that the 
United States is in decline, and those kings and despots have 
been proven wrong every single time. But, nonetheless, January 
6th helped feed a perception that I think emboldens our 
adversaries.
    You know, the other part I think is simply our allies. I 
heard from a lot of friends in Europe, in Asia, allies, close 
friends and supporters of the United States, that they were 
concerned about the health of our democracy. So, I think it's 
incumbent upon us to put their minds at ease, to put our own 
hearts at ease by investigating what happened on the 6th and 
making sure that it never happens again.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Look, I've always said democracies are not 
defined by bad days; they're defined by how they recover from 
those bad days. That's what we're doing here, is to bring 
accountability to that so we can actually come back even 
stronger than when we went into January 6th.
    Ms. Matthews, as you left the White House for the last time 
that night on January 6th, what did you think Americans needed 
to hear from President Trump?
    Ms. Matthews. I think that the American people needed to 
hear and see him publicly commit to a peaceful or at least 
orderly transition of power. In the aftermath of the Capitol 
attack, it wasn't just enough for us to ask him to condemn the 
violence. He needed to agree that he would peacefully transfer 
power over to the incoming administration because that's one of 
our fundamentals in what it means to live in a democracy.
    So, that evening when I resigned, the resignation statement 
that I drafted, I referenced this, and I said our Nation needs 
a peaceful transfer of power in hopes that it would put some 
sort of public pressure on the White House and President Trump 
to publicly agree to an orderly transition.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you.
    I yield to my friend from Virginia.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you, Mr. Kinzinger.
    The staff who remained at the White House on the morning of 
January 7th knew the President needed to address the Nation 
again and they had a speech prepared for him that morning, but 
he refused for hours to give it.
    As you heard Cassidy Hutchinson testify previously, 
President Trump finally agreed to record an address to the 
Nation later that evening, the evening of January 7th, because 
of concerns he might be removed from power under the 25th 
Amendment or by impeachment. We know these threats were real. 
Sean Hannity said so himself in a text message that day to 
Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany.
    He wrote: ``No more stolen election talk. Yes, impeachment 
and 25th Amendment are real.''
    We obtained the never-before-seen raw footage of the 
President recording his address to the Nation that day on 
January 7th, more than 24 hours after the last time he had 
addressed the Nation from the Rose Garden. Let's talk a look.

    White House Staff. Whenever you're ready, sir.
    President Trump. I would like to begin by addressing the heinous 
attack yesterday----
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump [continuing]. And to those who broke the law, you 
will pay. You do not represent our movement. You do not represent our 
country. And if you broke the law--I can't say that. I'm not gonna--I 
already said you will pay.
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. The demonstrators who infiltrated the Capitol have 
defied the seat of--it's defiled, right? See, I can't see it very well. 
I'll do this. I'm going to do this. Let's go.
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. But this election is now over. Congress has 
certified the results. I don't want to say the election's over. I just 
want to say Congress has certified the results without saying the 
election's over, okay?
    Ms. Trump. But Congress has--now Congress has----
    President Trump. Yeah, right.
    Ms. Trump. Now Congress----
    President Trump. I didn't say over. So, let--let me see. Go to the 
paragraph before.
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. Okay? I would like to begin by addressing the 
heinous attack yesterday. Yesterday is a hard word for me.
    Ms. Trump. Just take it out. Say ``heinous attack.''
    White House Staff. Say ``heinous attack on our Nation.''
    President Trump. Ah, good. Take the word ``yesterday'' out because 
it doesn't work. The heinous attack on our country. Say ``on our 
country.'' Want to say that?
    Ms. Trump. No, keep it.
                                 ______
                                 
    President Trump. My only goal was to ensure the integrity of the 
vote--my only goal was to ensure the integrity of the vote.

    Mrs. Luria. On January 7th, 1 day after he incited an 
insurrection based on a lie, President Trump still could not 
say that the election was over.
    Mr. Pottinger, you've taken the oath multiple times in the 
Marines and as an official in the Executive branch.
    Can you please share with us your view about the oath of 
office and how that translates into accepting election results 
and a transfer of power?
    Mr. Pottinger. Sure. You know, this isn't the first time 
that we've had a close election in this country. President 
Trump certainly had every right to challenge in court the 
results of these various elections. But, once you've had due 
process under the law, you have to conform with the law, no 
matter how bitter the result. Once you've presented your 
evidence in court, judges have heard that evidence. Judges have 
ruled. If you continue to contest an election, you're not just 
contesting an election anymore; you're actually challenging the 
Constitution itself. You are challenging the societal norms 
that allow us to remain unified.
    I think that one example, for example, you've got Vice 
President Richard Nixon back in 1960 had lost the hard-fought 
election against Senator John F. Kennedy. There were 
irregularities in that vote according to a lot of the 
histories, and a lot of Vice President Nixon's supporters asked 
him to fight. Contest it. Don't concede. But, in one of his 
finest moments, Vice President Nixon said no. He said it would 
tear the country to pieces, and he conceded to Jack Kennedy and 
announced that he was going to support him as the next 
President.
    We have an example of a Democratic candidate for President, 
Vice President Al Gore, who faced a very similar dilemma. He 
strongly disagreed with the Supreme Court decision that lost 
his election bid and allowed President George W. Bush to take 
office, but he gave a speech of concession in late December--
mid- or late December 2000, where he said: This is for the sake 
of the unity of us as a people and for the strength of our 
democracy, I also am going to concede. I'm going to support the 
new President.
    His speech is actually a pretty good model, I think, for 
any candidate for any office up to and including the President 
and from any party to read, particularly right now. You know, 
the oath that our Presidents take, it's very similar to the 
oath of office I took as a U.S. Marine officer and the oath I 
took as a White House official. It is to support and defend the 
Constitution. It's to protect the Constitution, to bear truth, 
faith, and allegiance to the Constitution. It is a sacred oath. 
It's an oath that we take before our families. We take that 
oath before God.
    I think that we have an obligation to live by that oath. I 
do still believe that we have the most ingenious system of 
government on Earth, despite its imperfections. I don't envy 
countries that don't have this system that actually allows for 
a predictable, peaceful transfer of government every 4 to 8 
years, and it's not something that we should take for granted.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you.
    As we heard at the start of the hearing, in the immediate 
aftermath of January 6th, Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy 
understood that President Trump bore responsibility for that 
day and should have taken immediate action to stop the 
violence. He was even more candid in calls with Republican 
colleagues. As you'll hear in a moment, recordings of some of 
these calls that were made were later published by The New York 
Times, the context for these calls was that a resolution had 
been introduced in the House calling for Vice President Pence 
and the Cabinet to remove President Trump from power under the 
25th Amendment.
    Let's listen.

    Mr. McCarthy. I've had it with this guy. What he did is 
unacceptable. Nobody can defend that, and nobody should defend it.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. McCarthy. The only discussions I would have with him is that I 
think this will pass, and it would be my recommendation he should 
resign. I mean, that would be my take, but I don't think he would take 
it, but I don't know.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. McCarthy. But let me be very clear to all of you, and I've been 
very clear to the President. He bears responsibility for his words and 
actions, no ifs, ands, or buts. I asked him personally today does he 
hold responsibility for what happened, does he feel bad about what 
happened. He told me he does have some responsibility for what 
happened, and he'd need to acknowledge that.

    Mrs. Luria. President Trump has never publicly acknowledged 
his responsibility for the attack. The only time he apparently 
did so was in that private call with Kevin McCarthy. There's 
something else President Trump has never acknowledged: The 
names and the memories of the officers who died following the 
attack on the Capitol.
    We're honored to be joined tonight by police and first 
responders who bravely protected us on January 6th. Your 
character and courage give us hope that democracy can and 
should prevail, even in the face of a violent insurrection. We 
on this dais can never thank you enough for what you did to 
protect our democracy.
    On January 9th, two of President Trump's top campaign 
officials texted each other about the President's glaring 
silence on the tragic death of Capitol Police Officer Brian 
Sicknick, who succumbed to his injuries the night of January 
7th.
    His campaign officials were Tim Murtaugh, Trump's director 
of communication, and one of his deputies, Matthew Wolking. 
Their job was to convince people to vote for President Trump, 
so they knew his heart, his mind, and his voice as well as 
anyone, and they knew how he connects with his supporters.
    Here's what they had to say about their boss:
    Murtaugh said: ``Also shitty not to have acknowledged the 
death of the Capitol Police Officer.''
    Wolking responded: ``That's enraging to me. Everything he 
said about supporting law enforcement was a lie.''
    To which Murtaugh replied: ``You know what this is, of 
course, if he acknowledged the dead cop, he'd be implicitly 
faulting the mob. And he won't do that because they're his 
people, and he would also be close to acknowledging that what 
he'd lit at the rally got out of control. No way he 
acknowledges something that could ultimately be called his 
fault. No way.''
    President Trump did not then and does not now have the 
character or courage to say to the American people what his own 
people know to be true. He is responsible for the attack on the 
Capitol on January 6th.
    Thank you, and I yield to the gentleman from Illinois.
    Mr. Kinzinger. Thank you, Mrs. Luria.
    Tonight's testimony and evidence is as sobering as it is 
straightforward. Within minutes of stepping off the Ellipse 
stage, Donald Trump knew about the violent attack on the 
Capitol. From the comfort of his dining room, he watched on TV 
as the attack escalated.
    He sent tweets that inflamed and expressed support for the 
desire of some to literally kill Vice President Mike Pence.
    For 3 hours, he refused to call off the attack. Donald 
Trump refused to take the urgent advice he received that day, 
not from his political opponents or from the liberal media, but 
from his own family, his own friends, his own staff, and his 
own advisers.
    In the midst of an attack, when there was no time for 
politics, the people closest to Trump told him the truth: It 
was his supporters attacking the Capitol, and he alone could 
get through to them. So, they pled for him to act, to place his 
country above himself. Still he refused to lead and to meet the 
moment to honor his oath.
    It was only once the Vice President and Members of Congress 
were in secure locations and the officers defending the Capitol 
began to turn the tide, that then-President Trump engaged in 
the political theater of telling the mob to go home. Even then, 
he told them all they were special and that he loved them.
    Whatever your politics, whatever you think about the 
outcome of the election, we as Americans must all agree on 
this: Donald Trump's conduct on January 6th was a supreme 
violation of his oath of office and a complete dereliction of 
his duty to our Nation. It is a stain on our history. It is a 
dishonor to all those who have sacrificed and died in service 
of our democracy.
    When we present our full findings, we will recommend 
changes to laws and policies to guard against another January 
6th. The reason that's imperative is that the forces Donald 
Trump ignited that day have not gone away. The militant, 
intolerant ideologies, the militias, the alienation and the 
disaffection, the weird fantasies and disinformation, they're 
all still out there ready to go. That's the elephant in the 
room.
    But, if January 6th has reminded us of anything, I pray it 
has reminded us of this: Laws are just words on paper. They 
mean nothing without public servants dedicated to the rule of 
law and who are held accountable by a public that believes 
oaths matter more than party tribalism or the cheap thrill of 
scoring political points.
    We the people must demand more of our politicians and 
ourselves. Oaths matter. Character matters. Truth matters. If 
we do not renew our faith and commitment to these principles, 
this great experiment of ours, our shining beacon on the hill, 
will not endure.
    I yield to the gentlewoman from Virginia.
    Mrs. Luria. Thank you, Mr. Kinzinger.
    Throughout our hearings, we've provided many facts and 
painted a vivid picture of the events of January 6th: The 
violence; the human toll, both emotional and physical, 
including the tragic loss of life; the threats to our 
Constitution, the rule of law, and the danger to this Nation, a 
Nation we all love as Americans.
    In tonight's hearing, we've gone into great detail about 
the events inside the White House on January 6th. We've 
described how the President of the United States, who was bound 
by oath to the Constitution and by duty to ensure the laws are 
faithfully executed, took no action when the cornerstone of our 
democracy, a peaceful transition of power, was under attack.
    But it's more than that. Donald Trump summoned a violent 
mob and promised to lead that mob to the Capitol to compel 
those he thought would cave to that kind of pressure. When he 
was thwarted in his effort to lead the armed uprising, he 
instigated the attackers to target the Vice President with 
violence, a man who just wanted to do his constitutional duty. 
So, in the end, this is not as it may appear, a story of 
inaction in a time of crisis. But, instead, it was the final 
action of Donald Trump's own plan to usurp the will of the 
American people and remain in power.
    Not until it was clear that his effort to violently disrupt 
or delay the counting of the election results had failed did he 
send his message--a message to his supporters in which he 
commiserated with their pain and he told them affectionately to 
go home. That was not the message of condemnation and just 
punishment for those who broke the law that we expect from a 
President, whose oath and duty is to ensure the laws are 
faithfully executed. But, instead, it was his newest version of 
``stand back and stand by.''
    To me, this is personal. I first swore an oath to support 
and defend the Constitution against enemies, foreign and 
domestic, when I entered the U.S. Naval Academy at age 17. I 
spent two decades on ships at sea defending our Nation from 
known and identifiable foreign enemies who sought to do us 
harm. I never imagined that enemy would come from within. I was 
not as prescient as Abraham Lincoln, who 23 years before the 
Civil War said: ``If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves 
be its author and its finisher.''
    Donald Trump was the author, and we the people, for 
ourselves and our posterity, should not let Donald Trump be a 
finisher.
    Thank you. I yield to the Vice Chair.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Thank you very much, Mrs. Luria.
    I want to thank our witnesses for joining us today. The 
Members of the Select Committee may have additional questions 
for today's witnesses, and we ask that you respond 
expeditiously in writing to those questions.
    Without objection, Members will be permitted 10 business 
days to submit statements for the record, including opening 
remarks and additional questions from our witnesses.
    I'd now like to turn things to Chairman Thompson for a few 
closing words.
    Chairman Thompson. The Members of the Committee and I 
appreciate and thank all persons who have come forward 
voluntarily to provide information to help protect our 
democracy. Our work continues. As we made clear throughout 
these hearings, our investigation is going forward. We continue 
to receive new information every day. We are pursuing many 
additional witnesses for testimony. We will reconvene in 
September to continue laying out our findings to the American 
people and pushing for accountability.
    In the first hearing of this series, I asked the American 
people to consider the facts and judge for themselves. The 
facts are clear and unambiguous. I thank the American people 
for their attention over the past several weeks. I wish you all 
a pleasant evening.
    Vice Chair Cheney. Let me, again, thank our witnesses 
today. We've seen bravery and honor in these hearings.
    Ms. Matthews and Mr. Pottinger, both of you will be 
remembered for that, as will Cassidy Hutchinson. She sat here 
alone, took the oath and testified before millions of 
Americans. She knew all along that she would be attacked by 
President Trump and by the 50-, 
60-, and 70-year-old men who hide themselves behind executive 
privilege. But, like our witnesses today, she has courage, and 
she did it anyway.
    Cassidy, Sarah, and our other witnesses including, Officer 
Caroline Edwards, Shaye Moss and her mother, Ruby Freeman, are 
an inspiration to American women and to American girls. We owe 
a debt to all of those who have and will appear here.
    That brings me to another point. This Committee has shown 
you the testimony of dozens of Republican witnesses, those who 
served President Trump loyally for years. The case against 
Donald Trump in these hearings is not made by witnesses who 
were his political enemies. It is instead a series of 
confessions by Donald Trump's own appointees, his own friends, 
his own campaign officials, people who worked for him for 
years, and his own family. They have come forward, and they 
have told the American people the truth.
    For those of you who seem to think the evidence would be 
different if Republican Leader McCarthy had not withdrawn his 
nominees from this Committee, let me ask you this: Do you 
really think Bill Barr is such a delicate flower that he would 
wilt under cross-examination? Pat Cipollone? Eric Herschmann? 
Jeff Rosen? Richard Donoghue? Of course they aren't. None of 
our witnesses are.
    At one point in 2016, when he was first running for office, 
Donald Trump said this: ``I could stand in the middle of Fifth 
Avenue and shoot somebody, and I wouldn't lose any voters.''
    That quote came to mind last week when audio from Trump 
adviser Steve Bannon surfaced from October 31, 2020, just a few 
days before the Presidential election. Let's listen.

    Mr. Bannon. And what Trump's going to do is declare victory, right? 
He's going to declare victory, but that doesn't mean he's a winner. 
He's just gonna say he's a winner.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Bannon. The Democrats--more of our people vote early that 
count. Theirs vote in mail. And so they're going to have a natural 
disadvantage and Trump's going to take advantage--that's our strategy. 
He's gonna declare himself a winner. So, when you wake up Wednesday 
morning, it's going to be a firestorm.
                                 ______
                                 
    Mr. Bannon. Also--also, if Trump is--if Trump is losing by 10 or 11 
o'clock at night, it's going to be even crazier because he's gonna sit 
right there and say they stole it. If Biden's winning, Trump is going 
to do some crazy shit.

    Vice Chair Cheney. Of course, 4 days later, President Trump 
declared victory when his own campaign advisers told him he had 
absolutely no basis to do so. What the new Steve Bannon audio 
demonstrates is that Donald Trump's plan to falsely claim 
victory in 2020, no matter what the facts actually were, was 
premeditated. Perhaps worse, Donald Trump believed he could 
convince his voters to buy it, whether he had any actual 
evidence of fraud or not. The same thing continued to occur 
from election day onward until January 6th. Donald Trump was 
confident that he could convince his supporters the election 
was stolen, no matter how many lawsuits he lost, and he lost 
scores of them.
    He was told over and over again in immense detail that the 
election was not stolen. There was no evidence of widespread 
fraud. It didn't matter. Donald Trump was confident he could 
persuade his supporters to believe whatever he said, no matter 
how outlandish, and ultimately that they could be summoned to 
Washington to help him remain President for another term.
    As we showed you last week, even President Trump's legal 
team led by Rudy Giuliani, knew they had no actual evidence to 
demonstrate the election was stolen. Again, it didn't matter. 
Here's the worst part: Donald Trump knows that millions of 
Americans who supported him would stand up and defend our 
Nation were it threatened. They would put their lives and their 
freedom at stake to protect her. He is preying on their 
patriotism. He is preying on their sense of justice. On January 
6th, Donald Trump turned their love of country into a weapon 
against our Capitol and our Constitution.
    He has purposely created the false impression that America 
is threatened by a foreign force controlling voting machines or 
that a wave of tens of millions of false ballots were secretly 
ejected into our election system or that ballot workers have 
secret thumb drives and are stealing elections with them. All 
complete nonsense.
    We must remember that we cannot abandon the truth and 
remain a free Nation. In late November 2020, while President 
Trump was still pursuing lawsuits, many of us were urging him 
to put any genuine evidence of fraud forward in the courts and 
to accept the outcome those cases. As January 6th approached, I 
circulated a memo to my Republican colleagues explaining why 
our congressional proceedings to count electoral votes could 
not be used to change the outcome of the election.
    But what I did not know at the time was that President 
Trump's own advisers, also Republicans, also conservatives, 
including his White House counsel, his Justice Department, his 
campaign officials, they were all telling him almost exactly 
the same thing I was telling my colleagues: There was no 
evidence of fraud or irregularities sufficient to change the 
election outcome. Our courts had ruled. It was over.
    Now we know that it didn't matter what any of us said 
because Donald Trump wasn't looking for the right answer 
legally or the right answer factually. He was looking for a way 
to remain in office.
    Let's put that aside for a moment and focus just on what we 
saw today. In our hearing tonight you saw an American President 
faced with a stark and unmistakable choice between right and 
wrong. There was no ambiguity. No nuance. Donald Trump made a 
purposeful choice to violate his oath of office, to ignore the 
on-going violence against law enforcement to threaten our 
constitutional order. There is no way to excuse that behavior. 
It was indefensible.
    Every American must consider this: Can a President who is 
willing to make the choices Donald Trump made during the 
violence of January 6th ever be trusted with any position of 
authority in our great Nation again?
    In this room, in 1918, the Committee on Women's Suffrage 
convened to discuss and debate whether women should be granted 
the right to vote. This room is full of history. We on this 
Committee know we have a solemn obligation not to idly squander 
what so many Americans have fought and died for.
    Ronald Reagan's great ally Margaret Thatcher said this: Let 
it never be said that the dedication of those who love freedom 
is less than the determination of those who would destroy it.
    Let me assure every one of you this: Our Committee 
understands the gravity of this moment, the consequences for 
our Nation. We have much work yet to do, and we will see you 
all in September.
    I request those in the hearing room remain seated until the 
Capitol Police have escorted witnesses and Members from the 
room.
    Without objection, the Committee stands adjourned.
    [Whereupon, at 10:45 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.]

                                 
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 11 (Tuesday, January 18, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S267-S272]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               H.R. 5746

  Ms. WARREN. Madam President, I rise today to urge the Senate to take 
action to protect voting rights and to defend our democracy. Voting is 
foundational to our democracy. In a strong, functioning democracy, the 
playing field is level. Citizens have a right to vote, and neither one 
side nor the other has the right to block those voters from the ballot 
box or from getting their votes counted.
  That basic premise no longer holds in America. Let's be blunt. 
American democracy is under attack from Republican politicians. In the 
past year alone, Republican State legislatures have passed laws in 
nearly 20 States to restrict American citizens' right to vote.
  The Republican nominees to the Supreme Court have destroyed 
longstanding protections against dark money in politics; they have 
given the green light to partisan gerrymandering; and they have gutted 
the Voting Rights Act. Republican dark money networks are bankrolling 
voter suppression efforts with hundreds of millions of dollars in 
lobbying and advertising.
  And for years and years, Republican Donald Trump and Republican 
politicians have spread lies about the integrity of our elections. Last 
January 6, a Republican President, backed up by Republicans right here 
in this Senate, provoked a deadly insurrection at our Nation's Capitol.
  And in the intervening year, Republican leaders have refused to 
accept evidence of President Biden's 7 million-vote victory over Donald 
Trump. Instead, they have fed conspiracies and lies that further 
undermine our democracy.
  Yes, American democracy is under attack, and, today, 50 Democratic 
Senators agree on the right response to this attack. The Freedom to 
Vote Act would guarantee that every American citizen can easily vote 
and get their vote counted.
  The act would defend against attempts to overturn the will of the 
people; the act would reform our broken campaign finance system and 
help root out dark money; and, critically important, the act would ban 
partisan gerrymandering by either side.
  The companion bill, the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act, 
would restore historic protections against State laws that have the 
purpose and the effect of discriminating on the basis of race.
  Unfortunately, Senate Republicans would rather destroy our democracy 
than have free and fair elections, and so they support those around the 
country who are trying to block access to voting and who are trying to 
rig how votes get counted.
  Elections are about the will of the majority, but the Republicans in 
the Senate don't want what a majority of Americans want. In fact, the 
50 Republicans in the Senate, together, represent 41\1/2\ million fewer 
Americans than the Democratic majority, but instead of taking a simple 
vote to protect American citizens' access to the polls, they want to 
stop legislation to defend the very foundation of our democracy from 
even getting a vote on the floor of the Senate.
  Let me be clear. My view on this is that the filibuster has no place 
in our democracy. Our Founders believed deeply in protections for the 
minority, and those are enshrined in the Constitution and in the 
structure of Congress. But our Founders made it clear that, after 
extended debate, the majority could always get a vote. And that final 
vote--except in the case of treaties and impeachment--would always be 
by simple majority. The Founders did not add a filibuster. With two 
exceptions, they insisted on plain old majority rule.
  When the Senate changed its rules a decade later, the filibuster 
became the favored tool of racists and segregationists. The filibuster 
preserved Jim Crow laws and stalled civil rights legislation for 
decades. The filibuster helped block the passage of anti-lynching 
legislation for over 100 years. The filibuster nearly stopped Congress 
from passing the most important voting rights law in our Nation's 
history--the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
  Today's filibuster does not foster bipartisanship and compromise. In 
fact, the exact opposite is true. The filibuster has been weaponized to 
intensify partisan division.
  The filibuster is a wicked tool used to kill legislation supported by 
the majority of Americans of all political parties, and that is true 
for protecting the right to vote and gun safety legislation and 
immigration reform and codifying Roe v. Wade.
  The filibuster thwarts the will of the people. Today's filibuster 
doesn't encourage debate; it promotes power. Senators can torpedo bills 
without saying a single word in public or even stepping to the floor of 
the U.S. Senate. This is not how a so-called deliberative body should 
operate.
  Senators should be required to talk and vote instead of hiding behind 
a rule. They should have to put skin in the game. If Republicans are 
fine with the wave of anti-voter laws being enacted in State after 
State, then they should have to come to the floor and make that clear. 
If Republicans oppose reinstating the Voting Rights Act that passed in 
this Chamber unanimously in 2006, their constituents and the historical 
record should know exactly where they stand.
  Instead, because of how today's filibuster works, we have two sets of 
rules in our country, one for Democrats, who want to promote civil 
rights and liberties, and another set for Republicans, who want to take 
them away. Republicans who want to close polling places, who want to 
limit voting, who want to pass gerrymandered maps are hard at work 
doing that right now with simple majorities in State legislatures all 
across this country. They face no filibusters to stop them. It is 
majority rule all the way.

  And here in Washington, when Republicans want to pass massive tax 
cuts for billionaires and rig our Tax Code to favor big businesses, an 
exception to the filibuster lets them do just that with a simple 
majority.
  Republicans who want to pack the Supreme Court with extremists 
Justices who roll back fundamental rights and who disregard the rule of 
law can do that with a simple majority right here in the U.S. Senate. 
But a majority of Democratic Senators--again, Democrats who, together, 
represent over 40 million more Americans than the Republican Senators--
a majority of Democrats cannot pass legislation to improve the lives of 
Americans.
  Democrats want to raise the minimum wage; Democrats want to lower the 
cost of prescription drugs and healthcare; and Democrats want to 
protect the right to vote. But too often we cannot achieve these goals 
because the filibuster gives the minority party an almost total veto 
over legislation, including the legislation we need to save our 
American democracy.
  We can't ignore Republicans' attempts to rig free and fair elections 
in this country. We can't roll over when Republicans want to make it 
harder for Black Americans to vote. We can't look the other way when 
Republicans want to make it tough for Latinos and Asian Americans to 
vote.

[[Page S268]]

  We can't be silent when Republicans make voting harder on Tribal 
lands. We can't shrink back when Republicans work to keep students from 
voting. We can't turn away when Republicans try to keep working-class 
people or anyone who might be more inclined to vote for Democrats--keep 
them away from the polls. That is not how democracy works.
  In a democracy, the most votes win--period. In a democracy, the 
Senate debates, and then the Senate votes. And in a democracy, the 
people--not the politicians--decide who will lead the Nation.
  This week, the eyes of the Nation and the entire world are on the 
U.S. Senate. We can choose to protect the tool of Jim Crow and 
segregation that is found nowhere in the Constitution or we can choose 
to defend the sacred right to vote.
  I urge the Senate to protect our democracy and to protect the right 
of every American citizen to vote and to have their vote counted.
  Some of our Republican colleagues have made the dishonest claim that 
there is no voter suppression crisis, and there is no need for Federal 
voting rights legislation. So I would like to enter into the Record a 
series of articles that demonstrate the voter suppression taking place 
in State after State in this country.
  I will start by reminding everyone that the Supreme Court--led by 
Chief Justice John Roberts--opened the door to all of these anti-voter 
tactics by gutting preclearance from the Voting Rights Act and by 
turning its back on equal justice under law.
  So first I will read excerpts from an article published in Vox on 
July 21, 2021, entitled: ``How America lost its commitment to the right 
to vote.''

       The Supreme Court, Justice Elena Kagan lamented in a 
     dissenting opinion earlier this month, ``has treated no 
     statute worse'' than the Voting Rights Act.
       She's right.
       The Voting Rights Act is arguably the most successful civil 
     rights law in [all of] American history. Originally signed in 
     1965, it was the United States' first serious attempt since 
     Reconstruction to build a multiracial democracy--and it 
     worked. Just two years after President Lyndon Johnson signed 
     the Voting Rights Act into law, Black voter registration . . 
     . in the Jim Crow stronghold of Mississippi skyrocketed from 
     6.7 percent to nearly 60 percent.
       And yet, in a trio of cases--Shelby County v. Holder [in] 
     (2013), Abbott v. Perez [in] (2018), and Brnovich v. DNC [in] 
     (2021)--the Court drained nearly all of the life out of this 
     landmark civil rights statute.
       After Brnovich, the decision that inspired [Justice] 
     Kagan's statement that the Court has treated the Voting 
     Rights Act worse than any other federal law, it's unclear 
     whether the Supreme Court would rule in favor of voting 
     rights plaintiffs even if [the] state legislature tried to 
     outright rig an election.
       These cases are the culmination of more than half a century 
     of efforts by conservatives who, after failing to convince 
     elected lawmakers to weaken voting rights, turned to an 
     unelected judiciary to enact a policy that would never have 
     made it through Congress. All of this is bad news for 
     minority voters in America, who are [the] most likely to be 
     disadvantaged by many of the new restrictions currently being 
     pushed in statehouses across America, and for the country's 
     relatively young commitment to multiracial democracy. And 
     there are at least three reasons to fear that decisions like 
     Shelby County and Brnovich foreshadow even more aggressive 
     attacks on the right to vote.
       The first is that Republican partisans can use race as a 
     proxy to identify communities with large numbers of 
     Democratic voters. In 2020, according to the Pew Research 
     Center, 92 percent of non-Hispanic Black voters supported 
     Democrat Joe Biden over Republican Donald Trump--and that's 
     after Trump slightly improved his performance among African 
     Americans compared to 2016.
       That means that state lawmakers who wish to prevent 
     Democrats from voting can do so through policies that make it 
     harder for Black voters (and, to a lesser extent, most other 
     nonwhite voters) to cast a ballot. And Republican lawmakers 
     haven't been shy about doing so. As a federal appeals court 
     wrote in 2016 about a North Carolina law that included many 
     provisions making it harder to vote, ``the new provisions 
     target African Americans with almost surgical precision.''
       An even starker example: Georgia recently enacted a law 
     that effectively enables the state Republican Party to 
     disqualify voters and shut down polling precincts. If the 
     state GOP wields this law to close down most of the polling 
     places in the highly Democratic, majority-Black city of 
     Atlanta, it's unclear that a Voting Rights Act that's been 
     gravely wounded by three Supreme Court decisions remains 
     vibrant enough to block them.
       The second reason to be concerned about decisions like 
     Brnovich is that the Supreme Court's attacks on the Voting 
     Rights Act are not isolated. They are part of a greater web 
     of decisions making it much harder for voting rights 
     plaintiffs to prevail in court.
       These cases include decisions like Purcell v. Gonzalez [in] 
     (2006), which announced that judges should be very reluctant 
     to block unlawful state voting rules close to an election; 
     Crawford v. Marion County Election Board [in] (2008), which 
     permitted states to enact voting restrictions that target 
     largely imaginary problems; and Rucho v. Common Cause [in] 
     (2019), which would ban federal courts from hearing partisan 
     gerrymandering lawsuits because the Court's GOP-appointed 
     majority deemed such cases too ``difficult to adjudicate.''
       Finally, decisions like Shelby County and Brnovich are 
     troubling because the Court's reasoning in those opinions 
     appears completely divorced from the actual text of the 
     Constitution and from the text of federal laws such as the 
     Voting Rights Act. Shelby County eliminated the Voting Rights 
     Act's requirement that states with a history of racist 
     election practices ``preclear'' any new voting rules with 
     officials in Washington, DC. It was rooted in what Chief 
     Justice John Roberts described as ``the principle that all 
     States enjoy equal sovereignty,'' a principle that is never 
     mentioned once in the text of the U.S. Constitution.
       In Brnovich, the Court upheld two Arizona laws that 
     disenfranchise voters who vote in the wrong precinct and 
     limit who can deliver an absentee ballot to a polling place. 
     [Justice] Alito purports to take ``a fresh look at the 
     statutory text'' in this case. But he imposes new limits on 
     the Voting Rights Act--such as a strong presumption that 
     voting restrictions that were in place in 1982 are lawful, or 
     a similar presumption favoring state laws purporting to 
     prevent voter fraud--[qualifications] which have no basis 
     whatsoever in the law's text.
       As [Justice] Kagan writes in dissent, Brnovich ``mostly 
     inhabits a law-free zone.''
       That doesn't necessarily mean that this Supreme Court will 
     allow any restriction on voting to stand--under the most 
     optimistic reading of cases like Brnovich, the Court might 
     still intervene if Georgia tries to close down most of the 
     polling places in Atlanta--but it does mean that voting 
     rights lawyers and their clients can no longer expect to win 
     their cases simply because Congress passed a law protecting 
     their right to vote.
       The rules in American elections are now what [Justice] 
     Roberts and his five even more conservative colleagues say 
     they are--not what the Constitution or any act of Congress 
     has to say about voting rights.

  Mr. President, Republicans are not just content with making it harder 
to vote. They are also passing State laws allowing them to replace 
local election officials with those who will administer elections in 
their favor. Unsurprisingly, they are targeting areas with huge Black 
populations, like Atlanta, that helped determine the outcome of the 
2020 election cycle.
  And they are targeting smaller places, too. As described in an 
article published in the Atlanta Journal-Constitution on December 29, 
2021, entitled ``New Election Board in Lincoln County Seeks Central 
Voting Site,'' a replacement elections board is planning to close all 
seven polling places in Lincoln County, north of Augusta, requiring in-
person voters to report to one centralized location. The poll closures 
would reduce voting access for rural residents, who would have to drive 
15 miles or more to cast a ballot in a county with no public 
transportation option, leading to opposition from voting rights 
advocates.
  The plan is moving forward after a State law passed this year 
abolished the previous county elections board and gave a majority of 
appointments to the Republican county commissioner. Now, Lincoln is one 
of six counties where the Republican-controlled Georgia General 
Assembly reorganized local elections boards.
  ``This is about the powerful flexing their muscles and saying, `We 
can do whatever we want to do and who is going to stop us?' '' said the 
Reverend Denise Freeman, who is organizing Lincoln voters to oppose the 
poll closures. She goes on to say: ``In Lincoln County, it's always 
been about power and control.''
  The remade board is the same as before, with one exception: A 
Democratic Party appointee was replaced by an appointee of the county 
commission, whose five members are all Republicans. The elections board 
could vote on the poll closure plan on January 19.
  ``Folks should have access to their polling locations. They should be 
able to vote without having to drive 30 minutes to get there,'' said 
Cindy Battles of the Georgia Coalition for the People's Agenda, a civil 
rights group that has been collecting voter signatures for a petition 
drive to try to stop the closures.
  There is no public transportation available in Lincoln County, nor 
are

[[Page S269]]

there taxis, Uber or Lyft. Anyone who wants to vote would have to drive 
or walk to a polling place, or return an absentee ballot. Turnout 
decreases when voters have to travel farther to cast a ballot, 
according to a statistical analysis by the Atlanta Journal-
Constitution.
  Polling places can be closed by a majority vote in Lincoln County, 
and the Federal Government has no oversight role. A 2013 U.S. Supreme 
Court decision removed the requirements of the Voting Rights Act for 
States with a history of discrimination, including Georgia, to obtain 
Federal preclearance before making changes to voting practices and 
locations.

  And what happened?
  County election boards closed 214 precincts across Georgia between 
2012 and 2018. That is nearly 8 percent of the State's total polling 
places, according to a count by the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
  Mr. President, Republican efforts have already succeeded at 
disenfranchising voters, especially Black voters. So I now want to 
share the impact that limiting polling places had on voters during the 
last Presidential election in Georgia, using an excerpt from an NPR 
article published on October 17, 2020, entitled ``Why Do Nonwhite 
Georgia Voters Have to Wait in Line for Hours? Too Few Polling 
Places.''
  Here is the story:

       Kathy spotted the long line of voters as she pulled into 
     the Christian City Welcome Center about 3:30 p.m., ready to 
     cast her ballot in the June 9 primary election.
       Hundreds of people were waiting in the heat and rain 
     outside the lush, tree-lined complex in Union City, an 
     Atlanta suburb with 22,400 residents, nearly 88% of them 
     Black. She briefly considered not casting a ballot at all, 
     but she decided to stay.
       By the time she got inside more than five hours later, five 
     hours later, the polls had officially closed and the 
     electronic scanners were all shut down. Poll workers told her 
     she would have to cast a provisional ballot, but they 
     promised that her vote would be counted.
       ``I'm now angry again, I'm frustrated again, and now I have 
     an added emotion, which is anxiety,'' said Kathy, a human 
     services worker, recalling her emotions at the time. She 
     asked that her full name not be used because she fears 
     repercussions from speaking out. ``I'm wondering if my ballot 
     is going to count.''
       By the time the last voter finally got inside the welcome 
     center to cast a ballot, it was the next day, June 10.
       The clogged polling locations in metro Atlanta reflect an 
     underlying pattern: the number of places to vote has shrunk 
     statewide, with little recourse. Although the reduction in 
     polling places has taken place across racial lines, it has 
     primarily caused long lines in nonwhite neighborhoods where 
     voter registration has surged and more residents cast ballots 
     in person on Election Day. The pruning of polling places 
     started long before the pandemic, which has discouraged 
     people from voting in person.
       In Georgia, which is considered a battleground State for 
     control of the White House and U.S. Senate, the difficulty of 
     voting in Black communities like Union City could possibly 
     tip the results on November 3. With massive turnout expected, 
     lines could be even longer than they were for the primary, 
     despite a rise in mail-in voting and Georgians already 
     turning out by the hundreds of thousands to cast ballots 
     early.

  Since the U.S. Supreme Court's Shelby v. Holder decision in 2013 
eliminated key federal oversight of election decisions in states with 
histories of discrimination, Georgia's voter rolls have grown by nearly 
2 million people, yet polling locations have been cut statewide by 
nearly 10%, [this is] according to an analysis of state and local 
records by Georgia Public Broadcasting and ProPublica. Much of the 
growth has been fueled by younger, nonwhite voters, especially in nine 
metro Atlanta counties, where four out of five new voters were 
nonwhite, according to the Georgia secretary of state's office.

       The metro Atlanta area has been hit particularly hard. The 
     nine counties--Fulton, Gwinnett, Forsyth, DeKalb, Cobb, Hall, 
     Cherokee, Henry and Clayton--have nearly half the state's 
     active voters but only 38% of the polling places, according 
     to the analysis.
       As a result, the average number of voters packed into each 
     polling location in those counties grew by nearly 40%, from 
     about 2,600 in 2012 to more than 3,600 per polling place as 
     of October 9. In addition, a last-minute push that opened 
     more than 90 polling places just weeks before the November 
     election has left many voters uncertain about where to vote 
     or how long they might have to wait to cast a ballot.
       The growth of registered voters has outstripped the number 
     of available polling places in both predominantly White and 
     Black neighborhoods. But the lines to vote have been longer 
     in Black areas, because Black voters are more likely than 
     Whites to cast their ballots in person on Election Day and 
     they are more reluctant to vote by mail, according to U.S. 
     census data and recent studies. Georgia Public Broadcasting/
     ProPublica found that about two-thirds of the polling places 
     that had to stay open late for the June primary to 
     accommodate waiting voters were in majority-Black 
     neighborhoods, even though those neighborhoods made up only 
     about one-third of the State's polling places.

  An analysis by Stanford University political science professor 
Jonathan Roddin of the data that was collected by the Georgia Public 
Broadcasting/ProPublica found that the average wait time after 7 p.m. 
across Georgia was 51 minutes in polling places that were 90% or more 
nonwhite.
  That is 51 minutes in polling places that were 90 percent or more 
non-White, but only 6 minutes in polling places that were 90 percent 
White.
  Georgia law sets a cap of 2,000 voters for a polling place that has 
experienced significant voter delays, but that limit is rarely, if 
ever, enforced. Our analysis found that, in both majority Black and 
majority White neighborhoods, about 9 out of every 10 precincts are 
assigned to polling places with more than 2,000 people.
  A June 2020 analysis by the Brennan Center for Justice at the New 
York University Law Center found that the average number of voters 
assigned to a polling place has grown in the past 5 years in Georgia, 
Louisiana, Mississippi, and South Carolina--all States with substantial 
Black populations that, before the Supreme Court's Shelby decision, 
needed Federal approval to close polling places under the Voting Rights 
Act, and though dozens of States have regulations on the size of voting 
precincts and polling places or the number of voting machines, the 
analysis found that many jurisdictions simply do not abide by them.
  Georgia's State leadership and election officials have largely 
ignored complaints about poll consolidations, even as they tout record 
growth in voter registration. As secretary of state from 2010 to 2018, 
when most of Georgia's poll closures occurred, Brian Kemp, now the 
Governor, took a laissez-faire attitude toward county-run election 
practices, save for a 2015 document that spelled out methods officials 
could use to shutter polling places to show ``how the change can 
benefit voters and the public interest.''
  Kemp's office declined to comment Thursday on the letter or as to why 
poll closures went unchallenged by State officials. His spokesperson 
referred to his previous statements that he did not encourage officials 
to close polling places but merely offered guidance on how to follow 
the law.
  The inaction has left Black voters in Georgia facing barriers 
reminiscent of Jim Crow laws, said Adrienne Jones, a political science 
professor at Morehouse College in Atlanta, who has studied the impact 
of the landmark Shelby decision on Black voters. Voter suppression ``is 
happening with these voter impediments that are being imposed,'' Jones 
said. ``You're closing down polling places so people have a more 
difficult time getting there. You're making vote-by-mail difficult or 
confusing. Now we're in court arguing about which ballots are going to 
be accepted, and it means that people have less trust in our state.''
  Despite false Republican claims to the contrary, voter ID laws 
disproportionately harm people of color, rural Americans, and poor 
Americans.
  I now want to read an article from ABC News. They published it on 
October 5, 2021. It tells the story of Texas voter ID laws, and it is 
entitled ``Black woman in rural Texas struggles with process to vote, 
advocates say system is unfair.''

       While voters across Texas submitted voter registration 
     applications on Monday, October 4, ahead of the Nov. 2 
     statewide election, 82-year-old Elmira Hicks worried she 
     would not be able to have her vote counted.
       The Oakwood, Texas, native said she hasn't been able to 
     renew her driver's license for more than a year because she 
     has been unable to present the required birth certificate 
     needed to verify her identity.
       In the Lone Star State, election laws require voters to 
     present a driver's license, passport, military identification 
     card, citizenship certificate, state election identification 
     certificate or a personal identification card to cast a 
     ballot in person.
       A person does not need an ID to register to vote, or to 
     vote by mail in the state of Texas.

[[Page S270]]

       For voters ages 70 and over, an otherwise valid form of ID 
     may be presented when casting a ballot, even if it's expired, 
     according to the office of the . . . Secretary of State.
       If a voter does not possess or cannot reasonably obtain one 
     of the seven acceptable forms of photo ID, the voter may file 
     a Reasonable Impediment Declaration and present a supporting 
     form of ID, [like] a bank statement, current utility bill, 
     paycheck or government check.
       Hicks and her daughter, Jonita White, said they were 
     unaware of the RID process, and that without a driver's 
     license and limited transportation, it's difficult for Hicks 
     to participate in state and federal elections.
       ``My voice does not count.'' Hicks told ABC News. ``It's 
     very important. People have died just to vote, people have 
     stood in line, in the rain, women fought to vote and now I 
     can't vote.''
       Like many Black elders in the South, Hicks was born at a 
     time when records weren't kept. She never had a birth 
     certificate. Her daughter has helped her apply for one. The 
     pair even went to court over the issue, and said a judge 
     ruled in their favor. Still, they said the Office of Vital 
     Statistics rejected Hicks because she filled out an outdated 
     form.
       ``I do feel like the laws right now are targeting my mother 
     and other African Americans in this country,'' White said.
       Eight state constitutional amendments ranging from taxes to 
     judicial eligibility will be up for a vote on Nov. 2, in an 
     election that, as of now, Hicks [cannot] participate in.
       Advocates warn that potentially thousands of predominantly 
     minority voters could be disenfranchised due to voter 
     identification requirements, which could have large 
     implications during next year's midterm elections for state 
     and congressional races.
       ``It's often very common for people of a certain age not to 
     have a birth certificate. I want to emphasize it's not as 
     uncommon as people might believe,'' said Franita Tolson, the 
     vice dean for faculty and academic affairs and a professor of 
     law at the University of Southern California Gould School of 
     Law.
       ``In this country, race correlates to a lot of different 
     characteristics. So, for example, if you take voter 
     identification laws . . . people of color, so African 
     Americans, Latinos, will be less likely to have the 
     underlying documents that you need in order to get the ID in 
     the first place in order to get a driver's license,'' Tolson 
     [said].
       Texas recently passed the Election Integrity Protection 
     Act, one of the most restrictive voting laws in the country. 
     It bans drive-thru voting, enlists new regulations for early 
     voting and enacts new ID requirements for mail-in voting.
       While Tolson does not believe all voter identification 
     requirements are discriminatory, she called Texas' voter ID 
     measures ``racist'' during a Congressional Subcommittee 
     hearing on September 22 because she believes they 
     disproportionately impact voters of color.
       ``Texas has very restrictive voter ID law,'' Tolson said. 
     ``If you read it, it doesn't seem racist on its face, but if 
     you think about how it operates in practice, as well as the 
     intent behind it, it is fairly racist. For example, Texas' 
     law only allows voters to have a certain limited amount of 
     IDs. You have to have a driver's license, you can have a . . 
     . handgun license, you can have a military ID, but you can't 
     have a federal ID, or you can't have a student ID, which are 
     types of IDs that people of color are more likely to have.''
       White said obtaining an election identification is not so 
     easy for an 82-year-old woman who lives in a rural area 
     without the convenient ability to drive herself to the 
     Department of Public Safety.
       ``My challenge is it's taking so long to get this done,'' 
     White said. ``And to send my mother through all of these 
     hoops at this age to go get documents notarized, to go get 
     her Social Security application, We're having to look for 
     high school records and baptism information . . . To send her 
     through such a process, it really is ridiculous.''

  Latino communities have also been at the forefront of the fight for 
social, racial, and economic justice, but Republican gerrymandering is 
silencing these communities as described in the following article, 
published by the Brennan Center, on November 14, 2021, entitled ``It's 
Time to Stop Gerrymandering Latinos out of Political Power.''

       In 2020, Latinos made up just 1 percent of all local and 
     federal elected officials, despite being 18 percent of the 
     population.
       In fact, the 2020 census results show that Latinos made up 
     over half the country's population growth from 2010 to 2020, 
     adding 11.6 million people to their total numbers--more by 
     far than any other ethnic group in absolute terms. Latinos 
     are already the largest minority group in 21 states, and in 
     California and New Mexico they have already surpassed non-
     Latino whites as the largest single ethnic group in the 
     state. In Texas, they are poised to do the same.
       In states where growth among Latinos and other people of 
     color threaten the political status quo, lawmakers are 
     already beginning to gerrymander Latino communities out of 
     their political voice, packing them into fewer and fewer 
     districts to circumscribe their electoral power or 
     dispersing Latino communities across multiple districts in 
     order to dilute their voting strength. In Texas, for 
     example, lawmakers recently passed a new congressional map 
     that reduced the number of Latino-majority districts--
     despite the fact that the state has actually added 2 
     million Latinos since 2010.
       This isn't a new tactic. Last decade, Texas failed to 
     create any new electoral opportunities for Latinos despite 
     rapid and concentrated Latino growth, leading to years of 
     drawn-out litigation over the discriminatory scheme. 
     Likewise, successful litigation in Florida demonstrated that 
     lawmakers packed Latino voters into already heavily 
     Democratic districts to shore up Republican districts at the 
     expense of Latino voters. Even in states under Democratic 
     control, like Illinois and Washington, Latinos are often 
     shuffled between different districts to bolster safe 
     Democratic seats and denied the equal opportunity to elect 
     representatives of their choice.
       Even with record turnout in 2020, Latino voters were, by 
     many accounts, neglected by Republican and Democratic 
     campaigns alike. This comes at a time when Latino communities 
     are in particular need of responsiveness from lawmakers. Over 
     the course of the pandemic, Latinos have been 2.8 times more 
     likely to die of COVID-19 and suffered more economic and job 
     losses than other Americans. And since the pandemic began, 
     Latino adults were more likely to get evicted and their 
     children more likely to fall behind in school than their 
     white peers.
       But rather than address the concerns and desires of this 
     growing body of constituents, many states, like Texas and 
     Florida, have instead created new barriers to the ballot box. 
     Anti-Latino redistricting practices are occurring amid the 
     biggest voter suppression push in decades--much of it aimed 
     at diminishing the growing power of Latino communities.
       These attacks on Latino voters have deep roots in 
     historical prejudice and violence going back over a century. 
     Often erased in U.S. history books, violent mobs are 
     estimated to have killed thousands of people of Mexican 
     descent in the early 20th century. Forgotten too is the 
     campaign by state and local officials to ``repatriate'' (that 
     is, forcibly move to Mexico) an estimated 2 million Mexican 
     Americans during the Great Depression, many of whom were U.S. 
     citizens. Later, even the Voting Rights Act of 1965 failed to 
     initially protect Puerto Ricans from English literacy tests 
     at the New York polls--``language minorities'' weren't 
     included in the law until 10 years after its passage.

  Though the Latino population has grown and grown more diverse over 
the past 50 years, the pattern of discrimination remains strikingly 
unchanged. Every day, lawmakers across the country are recycling the 
bad map-drawing practices that have stymied Latino political 
opportunity for decades. Voters and advocates can challenge these maps 
in court, but they will be hampered by courts' restrictive 
interpretation of voting rights laws and the ability for map drawers, 
after the Supreme Court green-lighted partisan gerrymandering, to claim 
that Latinas were targeted for partisan reasons, not for their 
ethnicity. And that is why it is more urgent than ever that Congress 
repair and strengthen the Nation's voting rights laws by passing the 
John R. Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote 
Act.

  Asian-American voters are turning out at record levels, and it is no 
coincidence that Republican State legislatures are responding with new 
laws to suppress their voices.
  I will now read from an NBC News article from March 31, 2021, about 
the effect of Georgia's recently enacted voter suppression law on 
Asian-American voters. This is entitled ``Asian American voter rights 
in Georgia hit record high. How voting bill threatens progress.''

       While new data shows Asian Americans had record turnout in 
     Georgia in the last election, a new law that restricts voting 
     in the state threatens their participation in the political 
     process, particularly at a time when they also have the 
     highest rates of absentee voting, critics say.
       The new legislation, passed with the overwhelming support 
     of Republicans in the state Legislature last week, adds 
     restrictions to absentee and early voting, among other forms 
     of balloting. Critics say the law could disproportionately 
     affect communities of color, including Asian Americans, whose 
     voting population already confronts significant barriers to 
     civic engagement.
       The bill, activists say, is particularly alarming in light 
     of a recent analysis by the policy nonprofit AAPI Data on 
     turnout in battleground states that showed a historic 84 
     percent vote gain in Georgia by Asian Americans from 2016 to 
     2020--a result, in part, of aggressive community outreach.
       ``Voters of color, including Asian American voters, have 
     shown their electoral power in Georgia,'' Phi Nguyen, a 
     litigation director for Asian Americans Advancing Justice-
     Atlanta told NBC. . . . ``And now some elected leaders want 
     to try to suppress those voices rather than be accountable to 
     a diverse, multiracial, multiethnic electorate.''

[[Page S271]]

       Critics said that the bill--which was fast tracked through 
     the state House and Senate and signed by Republican Gov. 
     Brian Kemp in just over an hour--was passed without public 
     notice to advocates or voters. The sweeping legislation 
     criminalizes ``line warming,'' the practice of offering food 
     and water to voters waiting to vote, and allows the Georgia 
     Legislature to take power from local boards of election.
       In regards to absentee and early voting, the earliest date 
     a voter can request a ballot is 11 weeks ahead of an 
     election, less than half the time before the law [before the 
     law was passed]. And the deadline to complete the ballots has 
     been moved up as well. Both requesting and returning ballots 
     requires identification, such as a driver's license number, 
     state ID number or a copy of an acceptable voter ID.
       The restrictions on absentee voting, Nguyen said, are 
     particularly concerning given that Asian Americans voted by 
     mail at the highest rate compared to all other racial groups 
     in the general election. Voting data from November showed 
     that in 13 of the most contested battleground states, 
     including Georgia, AAPI early and absentee voting rose almost 
     300 percent from 2016 [to 2020].
       Nguyen further pointed out that any laws that make voting 
     more challenging have a particularly amplified impact on 
     those who are limited English proficient, or people who have 
     difficulty communicating in English. The Asian American 
     population has some of the highest rates of limited English 
     proficiency. And according to Pew Research, Asian Americans 
     are the only group made up of a majority of naturalized 
     immigrants, who account for two-thirds of the electorate.
       With a high immigrant population, Asian Americans face 
     barriers beyond just language, Karthick Ramakrishnan, [an] 
     associate dean [for] the University of California Riverside 
     School of Public Policy and founder of AAPI Data, said. 
     Because the majority of the electorate is foreign born, most 
     Asian Americans most likely did not grow up in a [Democratic] 
     or [a] Republican household, he said. For those who were able 
     to get college degrees, they probably attended universities 
     in their home country, which influenced their knowledge of 
     the political process.
       ``What that means is that the political awakening and 
     consciousness and even information about where the party 
     stands on issues and where candidates stand on issues--the 
     barriers are pretty high beyond the language barriers,'' he 
     said. ``You combine that with the fact that parties and 
     candidates traditionally have not reached out to them. It's 
     asking a lot for someone to make a decision when they don't 
     have all that background information, and no one is reaching 
     out to them.''
       Given the added work that is required by immigrants to seek 
     out this information, Nguyen noted that ``they are more 
     likely to give up or feel intimidated in the face of 
     additional hurdles or hoops.''
       Within the Asian American community, those who tend to vote 
     at higher rates also tend to be more proficient in English, 
     and have higher incomes and higher education. . . . Many are 
     also homeowners as opposed to renters. Voter suppression laws 
     . . . would result in a distorted representation of the Asian 
     American population.
       ``All of these factors matter. . . . They 
     disproportionately hurt populations that are lower income, 
     lower education, renters, younger people''. . . . ``You get a 
     skew in terms of communities of color less likely to be 
     represented. Even within those communities you will get a 
     class skew and an age skew in terms of who has a voice.'' . . 
     .
       Ultimately, people should be pushing for more ways to make 
     voting easier and pull more people toward civic engagement . 
     . . adding that even if lawmakers are genuinely concerned 
     about voter fraud, it occurs far more infrequently than voter 
     suppression, of which there are widespread examples.
       Previous research suggests that there is little to no voter 
     fraud and a Harvard study on double voting, one of the most 
     frequently cited examples of fraud, suggests . . . it's ``not 
     . . . carried out in such a systematic way that it presents a 
     threat to the integrity of American elections.''
       ``This is a serious reminder of how important political and 
     civic education is for our most vulnerable communities.''

  For far too long, Native communities have faced massive challenges in 
exercising their right to vote. Voter suppression efforts in Montana, 
as illustrated by this Mic article from July 6, 2021, are just one 
example of recent efforts to disenfranchise Native voters. The article 
is entitled ``Montana is ground zero for Native American voter 
suppression--and the fight against it.''
  The Voting Rights Act of 1965 banned discriminatory voting practices 
and gave Native American communities the right to vote, in theory. Most 
of us know now that even with the Voting Rights Act in place, voter 
suppression is still going strong. In Montana, Native Americans are 
fighting new Republican laws that further restrict their ability to 
vote.
  This year, Montana Democratic Governor Steve Bullock, who served for 
8 years, was replaced by Republican Greg Gianforte. With a Democrat no 
longer holding veto power, State Republicans took advantage of the 
Governor's election by passing two new voting law bills--house bill 
176, which eliminates same-day voter registration, and house bill 530, 
which makes it illegal for people to distribute or collect mail-in 
ballots if they are being paid to do so.
  Per the National Congress of American Indians, the turnout rate 
amongst Native voters is up to 10 percentage points lower than any 
other racial group. In 2019, the Brennan Center reported that 
restrictive voting laws throughout the country continued to 
disproportionately impact Native communities.

  On the surface, preventing people from being paid to collect ballots 
might seem like an OK idea, but in Montana, local nonprofits like 
Western Native Voice and Montana Native Voice pay people to collect and 
distribute ballots as an important part of their voting strategy. 
Without this practice, many people would be unable to cast their 
ballots at all.
  For example, the New York Times reported the story of Laura Roudine, 
a resident of the Blackfeet Indian Reservation, who had emergency open-
heart surgery only a week before the 2020 election. Because of the 
risks that coronavirus posed, neither Roudine nor her husband could 
vote in person. Home delivery wasn't an option either because it 
doesn't exist in her area of the reservation. Instead, the Times 
reported, the couple relied on Renee LaPlant, a Blackfeet community 
organizer with Western Native Voice, who took applications and ballots 
back and forth between their home and one of the only two satellite 
election offices located on the 2,300-square-mile reservation. The new 
laws signed by Gianforte would make this practice illegal.
  Native American communities in Montana are organizing against these 
voter suppression efforts. In May, the ACLU of Montana and the Native 
American Rights Fund sued on behalf of several Native voting rights 
organizations and four Montana Tribal communities, stating that the new 
laws will disenfranchise Native voters in the State.
  I know I am running low on time. I will not be able to speak to the 
question of the student vote and how Republican legislatures are doing 
all they can to keep young voters from voting because they are more 
likely to vote Democratic or to speak on felon disenfranchisement and 
what that means in our democracy. I am not able to speak on these, but 
it does not mean that I do not think they are important; it just 
reminds us of the magnitude of this problem.
  Voter suppression laws have devastating consequences for real 
Americans every day, so I want to conclude my remarks today with the 
story of Crystal Mason, which is told in the New York Times on April 6, 
2021, in an article entitled ``Crystal Mason Was Sentenced to Five 
Years Behind Bars Because She Voted.''

       Whenever you hear Republican rants about widespread voter 
     fraud supposedly undermining Americans' faith in the 
     integrity of their elections, remember the story of Crystal 
     Mason.
       Ms. Mason, a 46-year-old grandmother from the Fort Worth 
     area, has been in the news off and on since 2016, when Texas 
     prosecutors decided she was a vote fraudster so dangerous 
     that justice demanded she be sentenced to five years behind 
     bars.
       Her offense? Visiting her local precinct on Election Day 
     that year and casting a provisional ballot for president. Ms. 
     Mason was not eligible to vote at the time because she was on 
     supervised release after serving a prison term for federal 
     tax fraud. Texas, like many states, bars those with criminal 
     records from voting until they have finished all terms of 
     their sentence.
       Ms. Mason, who had only recently returned home to her three 
     children and had gone to the polls that day at the urging of 
     her mother, said she did not realize she wasn't allowed to 
     cast a ballot. When poll workers couldn't find her name on 
     the rolls, they assumed it was a clerical error and suggested 
     she fill out the provisional ballot.
       Provisional ballots are a useful way to deal with questions 
     about a voter's eligibility that can't be resolved at the 
     polling place. Since 2002, Congress has required that states 
     offer them as part of the Help America Vote Act, a law passed 
     in the aftermath of the 2000 election debacle, when millions 
     of ballots were disqualified. Ms. Mason's ballot was rejected 
     as soon as the search of the database determined that she was 
     ineligible. In other words, the system worked the way it was 
     intended to.
       Tarrant County prosecutors went after her for illegal 
     voting anyway. They said she

[[Page S272]]

     should have known she was not allowed to vote. The state had 
     sent her a letter telling her so back in 2012, shortly after 
     she had been sentenced in the tax fraud case. The letter was 
     delivered to her home even though she had already begun 
     serving her sentence behind bars. ``They sent it to the one 
     place they knew she was not going to be,'' said Alison 
     Grinter, Ms. Mason's lawyer.
       The prosecutors also pointed out that when she cast her 
     ballot in 2016, she signed an affidavit [saying] that she had 
     completed all the terms of her sentence.
       Ms. Mason said she had not read the fine print; she was 
     focused on writing down her address in exactly the form it 
     appeared on her driver's license. She was convicted after a 
     one-day trial and sentenced to five years behind bars for 
     casting a ballot that was never counted.
       ``It's a surreal experience to be in a courtroom for these 
     trials,'' said Christopher Uggen, a professor of law and 
     sociology at the University of Minnesota who has studied the 
     impact of felon disenfranchisement for decades, and has 
     testified as an expert in prosecutions of people charged with 
     illegal voting.
       ``You've got the judges, you've got the lawyers. You've got 
     somebody who often is a model probationer called in, and 
     what's at issue is whether they voted. I have overriding 
     sense of, gosh, don't we have other crimes to prosecute? It 
     really should be a consensus issue in a democracy that we 
     don't incarcerate people for voting.''
       Mr. Uggen said that there is a stronger case for criminal 
     punishment of certain election-law offenses like campaign-
     finance violations or sabotaging voting machines, that can do 
     more widespread damage to our election system. But in his own 
     work he has found that the people who get punished are more 
     likely to fit Ms. Mason's description: female, low-level 
     offenders who are doing relatively well in the community. 
     ``These are not typically folks who represent some great 
     threat to public safety,'' he said.
       You wouldn't get that sense from how Ms. Mason has been 
     treated. After her voting conviction, a federal judge found 
     she had violated the terms of her supervised release, and 
     sentenced her to 10 extra months behind bars. That 
     punishment, which she began serving in December 2018, earned 
     her no credit toward her five-year state sentence.
       Ms. Mason has continued to fight her case, but so far she 
     has lost at every step. In March 2020, a three-judge panel on 
     a state appellate court rejected her challenge to her 
     sentence. The court reasoned that she broke the law simply by 
     trying to vote while knowing she was on supervised release. 
     It didn't matter whether she knew that Texas prohibits voting 
     by people in that circumstance.
       This appears to be a clear misapplication of Texas election 
     law, which criminalizes voting only by people who actually 
     know they are not eligible, not those who, like Ms. Mason, 
     mistakenly believe that they are. It's as though Ms. Mason 
     had asked a police officer what the local speed limit was, 
     and he responded: ``Beat's me. Why don't you start driving 
     and see if we pull you over?''
       Last week, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals, the state's 
     highest court for criminal cases, agreed to rule on Ms. 
     Mason's appeal. It's her last chance to avoid prison for 
     voting. Tossing her conviction would bring a small measure of 
     justice to a woman whose punishment should have been limited 
     to, at most, not being able to cast a ballot.
       But it wouldn't give her back the last four years of fear 
     and uncertainty she has endured for no good reason. Ms. 
     Mason's first grandchild was born a few months ago, another 
     reminder of how much she would miss if she were to lose the 
     appeal and end up back behind bars. ``This is very 
     overwhelming, waking up every day knowing that prison is on 
     the line, trying to maintain a smile on your face in front of 
     your kids and you don't know the outcome,'' Ms. Mason told 
     The Times in an interview. ``Your future is in someone else's 
     hands because of a simple error.''
       Identifying errors like these is the whole point of 
     offering provisional ballots: The crazy quilt of voting rules 
     and regulations that Americans face from state to state can 
     trip up even the best-informed voters, and honest mistakes 
     are common. By prosecuting Ms. Mason, just one of more than 
     44,000 Texans whose provisional ballot in 2016 was found to 
     be ineligible, the state is saying that you attempt to 
     participate in democracy at your own risk.
       That risk is almost always higher for people of color. 
     Texas' attorney general, Ken Paxton, likes to brag about the 
     155 people his office has successfully prosecuted for 
     election fraud in the last 16 years--an average of fewer than 
     10 per year. What he doesn't say out loud is what the 
     A.C.L.U. of Texas found in an analysis of the cases he has 
     prosecuted: almost three-quarters [of those cases] involved 
     Black or Latino defendants, and nearly half involved woman of 
     color, like Ms. Mason.
       At this point you might be wondering why Ms. Mason was 
     ineligible to vote in the first place. She had been released 
     from prison, after all, and was trying to work her way back 
     into society. As more states are coming to understand, there 
     is no good argument for denying the vote to people with a 
     criminal record, and that's before you consider the 
     practice's explicitly racist roots. There is even a strong 
     case to be made for letting those in prison vote, as Maine, 
     Vermont and most Western European countries do. And yet 
     today, more than five million Americans, including Ms. Mason, 
     are unable to vote because of a criminal conviction. That has 
     a far greater impact on state and national elections than any 
     voter fraud that has ever been uncovered.
       Given the disproportionate number of Black and brown people 
     caught up in the criminal justice system, it's not hard to 
     see a connection between cases like Ms. Mason's and the 
     broader Republican war on voting, which so often targets 
     people who look like her. The nation's tolerance of 
     prosecutions for the act of casting a ballot reveals 
     complacency about the right to vote, Mr. Uggen said, and a 
     troubling degree of comfort with voting restrictions 
     generally. ``There's a slippery slope: If you start exempting 
     individuals from the franchise, it's easy to exempt other 
     individuals by defining them outside the citizenry,'' he 
     said. ``What is shocking to me is that people view this as 
     acceptable in a political system that calls itself a 
     democracy.''

  Mr. President, these efforts to subvert our democracy cannot be 
allowed to stand. Congress must pass the Freedom to Vote: John R. Lewis 
Act immediately to protect free and fair elections across this Nation. 
And if Senate Republicans will not join us, then we must reform the 
filibuster. We must pass this vital legislation. Our democracy depends 
on it.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Merkley). The Senator from Massachusetts.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 11 (Tuesday, January 18, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S243-S245]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               H.R. 5746

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this past weekend--and yesterday, in 
particular--we celebrated Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. It is likely, if 
you attended any event in that celebration, that you heard at least 
part of his ``I Have a Dream'' speech. Many of us in the Chamber 
happily quoted it because of our respect for him and the eloquence of 
his language in that moment.
  We like to remember the hopeful second half of that speech, as well, 
because Dr. King imagined a future in which Black children and White 
children play together, and all people are judged, as he so famously 
said, ``not by the color of our skin but by the content of our 
character.''
  However, many of us forget--or worse, ignore--the first half of that 
speech, in which Dr. King noted the painful irony that 100 years after 
the Emancipation Proclamation--the ``promissory note'' of our 
Constitution and the Declaration of Independence was for most Black 
Americans simply ``a bad check which has come back marked `insufficient 
funds.' ''
  Many Democratic Senators and Republican Senators helped to change 
that shameful fact. It was here on the floor of this Chamber, in 1965, 
that the U.S. Senate voted 77 to 19 to pass the Voting Rights Act, 
outlawing State practices that denied millions of Americans, 
particularly Black Americans, the right to vote. It is worth noting 
that it was a strong bipartisan vote and that, percentagewise, a 
greater percentage of the Republican Caucus voted in support of it, 
compared to Democrats. The White Democrats from the South were 
notorious at that time for opposing it and opposing the civil rights 
movement.
  Well, over the next nearly 50 years, the Voting Rights Act was 
reauthorized five times, and that bipartisanship continued during the 
entire period. Each new version of the Voting Rights Act renewed the 
promise and the protections of that law, and each reauthorization was 
signed into law by a Republican President.
  Sadly, in more recent years, things have changed in an awful way. We 
have witnessed a sustained effort to chip away the protections 
guaranteed to every American under the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
  I grew up in East St. Louis, IL, and a trip to St. Louis was a big 
deal. I can remember my mother, who was an immigrant to this country, 
had only an eighth grade education, though she had self-taught herself 
into a much higher level of learning, but I can remember my mother 
always pointing out the St. Louis courthouse to me. If you are familiar 
with the terrain, the arch wasn't there when I was growing up. But 
where that arch is today, just behind it, is this famous St. Louis 
courthouse. We would be driving over the Eads Bridge, and she would say 
to me: Now, do you see that St. Louis courthouse up there? That big 
white building, do you see it? And do you see all those steps that you 
can see from here?
  Yes.
  They used to sell slaves on those steps.
  I found it incredible that my mom would say that. She was not a 
historian or, as I had mentioned, formally educated, but she knew that, 
and she knew that was the significance of that building. It was also 
the courthouse where the Dred Scott decision was argued.
  I say that because the Dred Scott decision, that infamous decision 
handed down in 1857, may have been the tipping point when it came to 
our Civil War. A decision by that court, now viewed as nothing short of 
outrageous, basically ruled that enslaved people, regardless of where 
they lived in the United States, could never be treated as American 
citizens and had no right to sue in the Federal courts of America.
  Despite State decisions to have free States and enslaved States, 
despite the Missouri Compromise, the Supreme Court in the Dred Scott 
decision basically came down clearly on the side of

[[Page S244]]

enslavement and said, for example, that the Missouri court doctrine of 
``once free, always free'' did not help Harriet and Dred Scott, who 
lived in free States part of their lives.
  That decision by the Supreme Court was a seminal decision in the 
history of our country. It is often noted the role that it played and 
the events that transpired afterward.
  I think of that decision when I think of what has happened in recent 
years in the Supreme Court. Nine years ago, in 2013, the Supreme Court 
issued its decision in Shelby County v. Holder. That Supreme Court 
decision essentially nullified a key provision of the Voting Rights 
Act: section 5. Prior to the Court's ruling in Shelby County, section 5 
required localities disenfranchising people based on race through poll 
taxes or literacy tests to seek Federal approval to any changes in 
their voting rules. That requirement is known as preclearance, and it 
could have--I believe it would have--prevented many of the restrictive 
voting laws in Georgia and Texas.

  The Supreme Court weakened another key section of the Voting Rights 
Act with its decision in Brnovich v. DNC. With these distorted 
rulings--distorted rulings--in fact, Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan 
wrote, ``In the last decade, this Court has treated no statute worse 
than the Voting Rights Act of 1965.''
  The Presiding Officer knows what has happened across the United 
States in 19 different States. I think, because of decisions like 
Shelby and Brnovich, these States have been emboldened. They don't 
believe that they are going to be held accountable for decisions they 
are making that restrict the right to vote the way they would have been 
before those decisions. And those who come to the defense of those 
States and their practices come to the floor of the Senate and, 
predictably, argue States' rights, States' rights.
  I heard over the weekend on some of the talk shows--I don't know if 
there is a copy of it here. Oh, there is. I was hoping there would be a 
copy of the Constitution in this desk, and there is. But article I, 
section 4 of our Constitution is explicit, for those who question 
whether or not it is the exclusive province of the States to establish 
standards for elections. I am going to read it.

       Section 4. ``The Times, Places and Manner of holding 
     Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be 
     prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but the 
     Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such 
     Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators.''

  Of course, then the amendments following the Civil War--during and 
following the Civil War--went even further in terms of voting and the 
issue of race.
  It is very clear to me--and you only have to read those simple words, 
straightforward and direct in the Constitution, to realize that 
establishing standards for elections is not exclusively within the 
province of the State. In fact, just the opposite is true. When it 
comes to Federal elections for Representatives and Senators, authority 
is given to us--to us--this Senate and the House of Representatives. 
And, of course, through the signature of the President, the law is 
created that can establish standards and regulations.
  Yet Members on the other side, Members on the side of President 
Lincoln's political party, the Republican Party, now come to us at this 
moment in history and argue nullification and States' rights. What a 
cruel twist of fate that Mr. Lincoln's party, which took such pride in 
the progress that was made after the deadly Civil War in establishing 
civil rights, is now defending the activities of 19 different States 
that restrict voting rights.
  Today, our democracy needs the Voting Rights Act of 1965 restored to 
its full power and potential. In the past year alone, Republican 
legislatures in nearly 20 States have enacted laws making it harder for 
Americans to vote. In total, more than 440 bills with voting 
restrictions have been introduced in 49 States, and more are on the way 
as the 2022 State legislative sessions get underway. These efforts 
represent the most coordinated assault on voting rights since the 
Voting Rights Act was first passed under President Lyndon Johnson.
  The most troubling of these bills, the ones that I just find 
incredible, grant partisan actors the power to potentially meddle and 
interfere in election administration. Now, where could they possibly 
have come up with that idea; that if you lose an election, you would 
contact the election authorities and ask them to change the results for 
your favor? Where could they have come up with that idea or notion, 
that outrageous idea? Perhaps in the recording that we have of the 
conversation between Georgia election officials and President Donald 
Trump after he lost the election in 2020. That is exactly what he set 
out to do. And now, they are setting up a scenario for that same 
strategy and tactic to be followed in other States if you are 
disappointed with the outcome of an election.
  Arkansas and Kansas have already passed laws that--according to 
experts from the States United Democracy Center, Protect Democracy, and 
Law Forward--could be used to shift the power to influence election 
outcomes to partisan political actors. In those States, they have 
increased the possibility that the voters won't have the last word.
  And legislatures in other States have introduced troubling bills with 
similar implications. For instance, in the State of Arizona, State 
legislators introduced three separate bills that, according to the 
Brennan Center for Justice, ``would have directly empowered partisan 
officials to reject or overturn election results.'' It is an incredible 
outcome.
  More traditional attacks on the right to vote include efforts in 
Michigan, for example, where a group of Republican lawmakers are 
attempting to bypass the State's Governor as well as the State's voters 
to enact a measure restricting voting rights. And, of course, in Texas, 
the State enacted a bill known as S.B. 1, which the Brennan Center 
called ``one of the harshest restrictive voting bills in the country.'' 
One of the most troubling provisions of the law will make it harder for 
voters living with disabilities to receive the accommodations and 
assistance they need to exercise their right to vote.
  The Members of this Senate have a constitutional obligation to 
respond to these State voting laws, and that means ensuring that the 
constitutional right to vote is protected by Federal law and fully 
enforceable. It also means establishing nationwide standards that 
ensure every eligible voter can participate in our democracy. These 
remedies and protections must be available in every State, red and 
blue, from New York to Arizona.
  Allow me to make one other point, Mr. President. I have heard my 
Republican colleagues make the argument: Well, take a look at the 
States across the blue belt of America, States like Delaware and New 
York; they don't go as far as the law that is being suggested by you 
Democrats--for example, same-day registration, for those who want to 
show up and establish their voter registration on the day of the 
election. This bill is going to require it. The State of New York 
doesn't have it. The State of Delaware doesn't have it.
  Well, my message to them is: Good. Let them get it. It is a good, 
positive way to expand the opportunity to vote. Many States have done 
it for years without problems. Those who are lagging, whether they are 
red or blue, should come into the 21st century. It should be our 
mission--our singular mission, before anything else--to make sure that 
every eligible American has the right to vote; that we eliminate the 
burdens and obstacles, the tricks and traps that have been set up in 
all these States that make it so difficult. And we ought to be 
singularly embarrassed as a nation as we look at the film and all the 
videos and all the programs on election day that show African Americans 
standing in line, hour after weary hour, to exercise the right to vote 
while many White voters just scoot through in other localities in the 
same States. There is something fundamentally wrong here, and it is not 
just an accident.

  Last year, I joined with a bipartisan group of my colleagues to 
introduce the updated John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act. This 
legislation would restore and strengthen the Voting Rights Act of 1965, 
one of the most important pieces of legislation in American history. 
And truthfully, this should, once again, be a bipartisan, unifying 
endeavor.

[[Page S245]]

  It hasn't been that long ago that Republicans and Democrats stood 
together and agreed that this was the right thing to do--to make sure 
that there was no discrimination against American voters. The last time 
we did this was 16 years ago, in 2006, and on a nearly unanimous basis.
  One of the Republicans who voted in support of it was the senior 
Senator from Kentucky, now the Republican leader, who said at that 
time, when he voted for the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act in 
2006, ``[T]his is a piece of legislation which has worked.''
  Well, let's make sure it can keep working. I hope my colleagues will 
come together, in a bipartisan fashion, and join us in supporting the 
John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act as well as the Freedom to Vote 
Act. Join us in defending American democracy.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. Res. 783 Agreed to Senate (ATS)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
S. RES. 783

    Commemorating the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the 
Department of the Air Force and celebrating the United States Air Force 
        for 75 years of serving and defending the United States.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 20, 2022

   Mr. Boozman (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
 Warnock, and Ms. Rosen) submitted the following resolution; which was 
                        considered and agreed to

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
    Commemorating the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the 
Department of the Air Force and celebrating the United States Air Force 
        for 75 years of serving and defending the United States.

Whereas, on August 1, 1907, the Aeronautical Division of the Army Signal Corps, 
        consisting of 1 officer and 2 enlisted men, began operation under the 
        command of Captain Charles deForest Chandler with the responsibility for 
        ``all matters pertaining to military ballooning, air machines, and all 
        kindred subjects'';
Whereas, in 1908, the Department of War contracted with the Wright brothers to 
        build 1 heavier-than-air flying machine for the Army and, in 1909, the 
        Department of War accepted the Wright Military Flyer, the first military 
        airplane in the world;
Whereas pilots of the United States, flying with both Allied air forces and with 
        the Army Air Service, performed admirably during the course of World War 
        I, the first air war in history, by participating in pursuit, 
        observation, and day and night bombing missions;
Whereas pioneering aviators of the United States, including Mason M. Patrick, 
        William ``Billy'' Mitchell, Benjamin D. Foulois, Frank M. Andrews, Henry 
        H. ``Hap'' Arnold, James H. ``Jimmy'' Doolittle, and Edward ``Eddie'' 
        Rickenbacker, were among the first individuals to recognize the military 
        potential of airpower and, in the decades following World War I, 
        courageously laid the foundation for the creation of an independent arm 
        for the air forces of the United States;
Whereas General Henry H. ``Hap'' Arnold drew upon the industrial prowess and 
        human resources of the United States to transform the Army Air Corps 
        from a force of 22,000 men and 3,900 aircraft in 1939, into an entity 
        with a peak wartime strength of nearly 2,500,000 personnel and 75,000 
        aircraft;
Whereas, on June 20, 1941, the Department of War established the Army Air Forces 
        as the aviation element of that Department and, shortly thereafter, the 
        Department made the Army Air Forces co-equal to the Army Ground Forces;
Whereas the standard for courage, flexibility, and intrepidity in combat was 
        established for all airmen during the first aerial raid in the Pacific 
        Theater on April 18, 1942, when Lieutenant Colonel James ``Jimmy'' H. 
        Doolittle led 16 North American B-25 Mitchell bombers in a joint 
        operation from the deck of the USS Hornet to strike the Japanese 
        mainland in response to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor;
Whereas the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.), signed into 
        law by President Harry S. Truman, realigned and reorganized the Armed 
        Forces to establish the Department of the Air Force and the United 
        States Air Force (referred to in this preamble as the ``USAF'') as 
        separate from other military services;
Whereas, on September 18, 1947, W. Stuart Symington became the first Secretary 
        of the newly formed and independent Air Force, marking the date on which 
        the USAF was established;
Whereas the Air National Guard was also created by the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) and has played a vital role in guarding 
        the United States and defending freedom in nearly every major conflict 
        and contingency since its creation;
 Whereas, on October 14, 1947, the USAF demonstrated the historic and ongoing 
        commitment of the USAF to technological innovation when Captain Charles 
        ``Chuck'' Yeager piloted the X-1 developmental rocket plane to a speed 
        of Mach 1.06, becoming the first flyer to break the sound barrier in a 
        powered aircraft in level flight;
Whereas the Air Force Reserve, created on April 14, 1948, is comprised of 
        citizen airmen who serve as unrivaled wingmen of the active duty USAF 
        during every deployment and on every mission and battlefield around the 
        world in which the USAF is engaged;
Whereas the USAF carried out the Berlin Airlift in 1948 and 1949 to provide 
        humanitarian relief to post-war Germany and has established a tradition 
        of offering humanitarian assistance when responding to natural disasters 
        and needs across the world;
Whereas the Tuskegee Airmen served the United States with tremendous dignity and 
        honor, overcame segregation and prejudice to become one of the most 
        highly respected fighter groups of World War II, and helped to establish 
        a policy of racial integration within the ranks of the USAF, as, on 
        April 26, 1948, the USAF became the first military branch to announce a 
        policy of racial integration, a full 3 months before an executive order 
        integrated all military services;
Whereas, in the early years of the Cold War, the arsenal of bombers of the USAF, 
        such as the long-range Convair B-58 Hustler and B-36 Peacemaker, and the 
        Boeing B-47 Stratojet and B-52 Stratofortress, served as the preeminent 
        deterrent of the United States against the forces of the Soviet Union 
        and were later augmented by the development and deployment of medium 
        range and intercontinental ballistic missiles, such as the Titan and 
        Minuteman, developed by General Bernard A. Schriever;
Whereas, on April 1, 1954, President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed legislation 
        establishing the United States Air Force Academy, the mission of which 
        is to educate, develop, and inspire men and women to become aerospace 
        officers and leaders of impeccable character and knowledge, and which, 
        as of 2022, has graduated 64 classes and commissioned 53,491 officers 
        into the USAF and United States Space Force (referred to in this 
        preamble as the ``USSF'');
Whereas, during the Korean War, the USAF employed the first large-scale combat 
        use of jet aircraft, helped to establish air superiority over the Korean 
        Peninsula, protected ground forces of the United Nations with close air 
        support, and interdicted enemy reinforcements and supplies;
Whereas, during the Vietnam War, the USAF engaged in a limited campaign of 
        airpower to assist the South Vietnamese government in countering the 
        communist Viet Cong guerillas and fought to disrupt supply lines, halt 
        enemy ground offensives, and protect United States and Allied forces;
Whereas, on April 3, 1967, former prisoner of war Paul W. Airey, a career radio 
        operator, aerial gunner, and First Sergeant, became the first Chief 
        Master Sergeant of the USAF;
Whereas, in recent decades, the USAF and coalition partners of the United States 
        have supported successful actions in Grenada, Panama, Iraq, Kuwait, 
        Somalia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Haiti, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, 
        and many other locations around the world;
Whereas USAF Special Operations Command has served with honor and distinction 
        around the world since its activation in 1990, providing the United 
        States with specialized airpower across the broad spectrum of conflicts 
        in any place and at any time;
Whereas, for over 3 decades beginning in 1990, airmen engaged in continuous 
        combat operations from Operation Desert Shield to Operation Inherent 
        Resolve, demonstrating an air and space expeditionary force of 
        outstanding capability that is ready to fight and win wars and deter 
        aggression whenever and wherever called upon;
Whereas, when terrorists attacked the United States on September 11, 2001, 
        fighter and air refueling aircraft of the USAF took to the skies to fly 
        combat air patrols over major cities of the United States and protect 
        the people of the United States from further attack;
Whereas, on December 20, 2019, in recognition that space had become a 
        warfighting domain, former President Donald Trump signed legislation 
        establishing the USSF as an independent service to ensure that the space 
        domain remained open to all countries;
Whereas, on May 30, 2020, in collaboration and engagement with interagency and 
        commercial partners, the USSF provided unparalleled space launch 
        capabilities in support of the first manned spaceflight from American 
        soil in 9 years;
Whereas, in 2021, in a step toward organizing the forces of the USSF to meet the 
        needs of an independent military service devoted to space, the USSF 
        activated Space Operations Command, Space Systems Command, and Space 
        Training and Readiness Command;
Whereas, to establish a unique and enduring culture for the USSF, the Department 
        of the Air Force redesignated certain Air Force Bases and Air Force 
        Stations supporting the USSF mission as Space Force Bases and Space 
        Force Stations and graduated its first-ever basic military training 
        course taught completely by USSF training instructors;
Whereas space capabilities provide the foundation for everything the United 
        States Armed Forces do, from humanitarian efforts to combat operations;
Whereas, in 2022, following a `wings of hope and compassion' tradition dating 
        back more than a century, when airmen provided food and supplies to 
        Texas flood victims in 1919, the USAF and coalition partners airlifted 
        124,334 people out of Afghanistan in the largest non-combatant 
        evacuation airlift in United States history, spanning 17 days, 9 
        countries, 8 time zones, and more than 10 temporary safe havens;
Whereas, since February 24, 2022, airmen and guardians have responded to Russian 
        aggression against Ukraine by guarding the skies of members of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization (commonly referred to as ``NATO''), 
        transporting essential equipment to the Ukrainian military, and 
        providing critical support from space;
Whereas women have played a prominent role in the evolution of the Department of 
        the Air Force, courageously fighting alongside their male counterparts 
        and dedicating their lives to protecting peace, liberty, and freedom 
        around the world as they provide air and space power whenever and 
        wherever needed;
Whereas the Department of the Air Force has made tremendous strides in the 
        global warfighting domain of cyberspace by revolutionizing offensive and 
        defensive capabilities and effects with speed, agility, and surgical 
        precision, thereby ensuring the continuous command, control, and 
        execution of operations in contested, degraded, and limited 
        environments;
Whereas the Civil Air Patrol, as a Total Force partner and auxiliary of the 
        USAF, has maintained a steadfast commitment to the United States and the 
        communities of the United States through a proud legacy of service, from 
        the earliest days of World War II, when the Civil Air Patrol protected 
        the shorelines of the United States, through 2022, as the Civil Air 
        Patrol executes emergency service missions and aerospace education 
        programs;
Whereas the Department of the Air Force is steadfast in the commitment to 
        fielding a world-class air and space expeditionary force by recruiting, 
        training, and educating its officer, enlisted, and civilian corps 
        comprising the active duty, Guard, and Reserve components of the Total 
        Force;
Whereas airmen were imprisoned and tortured during several major conflicts, 
        including World War I, World War II, the Vietnam War, the Korean War, 
        and the Persian Gulf War, and, in the valiant tradition of airmen held 
        captive, continued serving the United States with honor and dignity 
        under the most inhumane circumstances;
Whereas airmen have earned the Medal of Honor 19 times, the Air Force Cross 203 
        times, the Distinguished Service Cross 42 times, and, since September 
        11, 2001, the Silver Star 92 times;
Whereas the USAF and the USSF are tremendous stewards of resources in developing 
        and applying groundbreaking technology to manage complex acquisition 
        programs for all air and space weapon systems throughout their life 
        cycles;
Whereas talented and dedicated airmen and guardians will continue to make the 
        investments necessary to accelerate transformation and modernization to 
        counter the adversaries of the United States and meet the future 
        challenges of an ever-changing world with limitless strength, resolve, 
        and patriotism;
Whereas the USAF and the USSF are committed to accelerating change and preparing 
        for the future, because failure is not an option;
Whereas, on every continent around the world, airmen and guardians have bravely 
        fought for freedom, liberty, and peace, preserved democracy, and 
        protected the people and interests of the United States;
Whereas the future success of the United States Armed Forces depends upon the 
        ability to control the air and space domains;
Whereas airmen and guardians will continue to be a tremendous resource for the 
        United States in fights across every domain and at every location, 
        thereby ensuring the safety and security of the United States; and
Whereas, for 75 years, the airmen and guardians of the Department of the Air 
        Force, through their exemplary service and sacrifice, have repeatedly 
        proven their value to the United States, the people of the United 
        States, the allies of the United States, and all free people of the 
        world: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the Senate--
            (1) commemorates the 75th anniversary of the establishment 
        of the Department of the Air Force; and
            (2) remembers, honors, and commends the achievements of the 
        United States Air Force and the United States Space Force in 
        serving and defending the United States.
                                 <all>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. Res. 756 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
S. RES. 756

    Commemorating the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the 
Department of the Air Force and celebrating the United States Air Force 
        for 75 years of serving and defending the United States.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 8, 2022

   Mr. Boozman (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Hoeven, and Mr. Brown) 
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee 
                           on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
    Commemorating the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the 
Department of the Air Force and celebrating the United States Air Force 
        for 75 years of serving and defending the United States.

Whereas, on August 1, 1907, the Aeronautical Division of the Army Signal Corps, 
        consisting of 1 officer and 2 enlisted men, began operation under the 
        command of Captain Charles deForest Chandler with the responsibility for 
        ``all matters pertaining to military ballooning, air machines, and all 
        kindred subjects'';
Whereas, in 1908, the Department of War contracted with the Wright brothers to 
        build 1 heavier-than-air flying machine for the Army and, in 1909, the 
        Department of War accepted the Wright Military Flyer, the first military 
        airplane in the world;
Whereas pilots of the United States, flying with both Allied Air Forces and with 
        the Army Air Service, performed admirably during the course of World War 
        I, the first air war in history, by participating in pursuit, 
        observation, and day and night bombing missions;
Whereas pioneering aviators of the United States, including Mason M. Patrick, 
        William ``Billy'' Mitchell, Benjamin D. Foulois, Frank M. Andrews, Henry 
        H. ``Hap'' Arnold, James H. ``Jimmy'' Doolittle, and Edward ``Eddie'' 
        Rickenbacker, were among the first individuals to recognize the military 
        potential of airpower and, in the decades following World War I, 
        courageously laid the foundation for the creation of an independent arm 
        for the air forces of the United States;
Whereas General Henry H. ``Hap'' Arnold drew upon the industrial prowess and 
        human resources of the United States to transform the Army Air Corps 
        from a force of 22,400 men and 2,402 aircraft in 1939, into an entity 
        with a peak wartime strength of 2,400,000 personnel and 79,908 aircraft;
Whereas, on June 20, 1941, the Department of War established the Army Air Forces 
        as the aviation element of that Department and, shortly thereafter, the 
        Department made the Army Air Forces co-equal to the Army Ground Forces;
Whereas the standard for courage, flexibility, and intrepidity in combat was 
        established for all airmen during the first aerial raid in the Pacific 
        Theater on April 18, 1942, when Lieutenant Colonel James ``Jimmy'' H. 
        Doolittle led 16 North American B-25 Mitchell bombers in a joint 
        operation from the deck of the USS Hornet to strike the Japanese 
        mainland in response to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor;
Whereas the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.), signed into 
        law by President Harry S. Truman, realigned and reorganized the Armed 
        Forces to establish the Department of the Air Force and the United 
        States Air Force (referred to in this preamble as the ``USAF'') as 
        separate from other military services;
Whereas, on September 18, 1947, W. Stuart Symington became the first Secretary 
        of the newly formed and independent Air Force, marking the date on which 
        the USAF was established;
Whereas the Air National Guard was also created by the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) and has played a vital role in guarding 
        the United States and defending freedom in nearly every major conflict 
        and contingency since its creation;
Whereas, on October 14, 1947, the USAF demonstrated the historic and ongoing 
        commitment of the USAF to technological innovation when Captain Charles 
        ``Chuck'' Yeager piloted the X-1 developmental rocket plane to a speed 
        of Mach 1.07, becoming the first flyer to break the sound barrier in a 
        powered aircraft in level flight;
Whereas the Air Force Reserve, created on April 14, 1948, is comprised of 
        citizen airmen who serve as unrivaled wingmen of the active duty USAF 
        during every deployment and on every mission and battlefield around the 
        world in which the USAF is engaged;
Whereas the USAF carried out the Berlin Airlift in 1948 and 1949 to provide 
        humanitarian relief to post-war Germany and has established a tradition 
        of offering humanitarian assistance when responding to natural disasters 
        and needs across the world;
Whereas the Tuskegee Airmen served the United States with tremendous dignity and 
        honor, overcame segregation and prejudice to become one of the most 
        highly respected fighter groups of World War II, and helped to establish 
        a policy of racial integration within the ranks of the USAF, as, on 
        April 26, 1948, the USAF became the first military branch to integrate, 
        a full 3 months before an Executive order integrated all military 
        services;
Whereas, in the early years of the Cold War, the arsenal of bombers of the USAF, 
        such as the long-range Convair B-58 Hustler and B-36 Peacemaker, and the 
        Boeing B-47 Stratojet and B-52 Stratofortress, served as the preeminent 
        deterrent of the United States against the forces of the Soviet Union 
        and were later augmented by the development and deployment of medium 
        range and intercontinental ballistic missiles, such as the Titan and 
        Minuteman, developed by General Bernard A. Schriever;
Whereas, on April 1, 1954, President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed legislation 
        establishing the United States Air Force Academy, the mission of which 
        is to educate, develop, and inspire men and women to become aerospace 
        officers and leaders of impeccable character and knowledge, and which, 
        as of 2022, has graduated 64 classes and commissioned 53,491 officers 
        into the USAF and United States Space Force (referred to in this 
        preamble as the ``USSF'');
Whereas, during the Korean War, the USAF employed the first large-scale combat 
        use of jet aircraft, helped to establish air superiority over the Korean 
        Peninsula, protected ground forces of the United Nations with close air 
        support, and interdicted enemy reinforcements and supplies;
Whereas, during the Vietnam War, the USAF engaged in a limited campaign of 
        airpower to assist the South Vietnamese Government in countering the 
        Communist Viet Cong Guerillas and fought to disrupt supply lines, halt 
        enemy ground offensives, and protect United States and Allied Forces;
Whereas, on April 3, 1967, former prisoner of war Paul W. Airey, a career radio 
        operator, aerial gunner, and First Sergeant, became the first Chief 
        Master Sergeant of the USAF;
Whereas, in recent decades, the USAF and coalition partners of the United States 
        have supported successful actions in Grenada, Panama, Iraq, Kuwait, 
        Somalia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Haiti, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, 
        and many other locations around the world;
Whereas USAF Special Operations Forces have served with honor and distinction 
        around the world since their activation in 1990, providing the United 
        States with specialized airpower across the broad spectrum of conflicts 
        in any place and at any time;
Whereas, for over 3 decades beginning in 1990, airmen engaged in continuous 
        combat operations from Operation Desert Shield to Operation Inherent 
        Resolve, demonstrating an air and space expeditionary force of 
        outstanding capability that is ready to fight and win wars and deter 
        aggression whenever and wherever called upon;
Whereas, when terrorists attacked the United States on September 11, 2001, 
        fighter and air refueling aircraft of the USAF took to the skies to fly 
        combat air patrols over major cities of the United States and protect 
        the people of the United States from further attack;
Whereas, on December 20, 2019, in recognition that space had become a 
        warfighting domain, former President Donald Trump signed legislation 
        establishing the USSF as an independent service to ensure that the space 
        domain remained open to all countries;
Whereas, on May 30, 2020, in collaboration and engagement with interagency and 
        commercial partners, the USSF provided unparalleled space launch 
        capabilities in support of the first manned spaceflight from American 
        soil in 9 years;
Whereas, in 2021, in a step toward organizing the forces of the USSF to meet the 
        needs of an independent military service devoted to space, the USSF 
        activated Space Operations Command, Space Systems Command, and Space 
        Training and Readiness Command;
Whereas, to establish a unique and enduring culture for the USSF, the Department 
        of the Air Force redesignated certain Air Force Bases and Air Force 
        Stations supporting the USSF mission as Space Force Bases and Space 
        Force Stations and graduated its first-ever basic military training 
        course taught completely by USSF training instructors;
Whereas space capabilities provide the foundation for everything the United 
        States Armed Forces do, from humanitarian efforts to combat operations;
Whereas, in 2022, following a `wings of hope and compassion' tradition dating 
        back more than a century, when airmen provided food and supplies to 
        Texas flood victims in 1919, the USAF and coalition partners airlifted 
        124,334 people out of Afghanistan in the largest humanitarian evacuation 
        operation in history, spanning 17 days, 9 countries, 8 time zones, and 
        more than 10 temporary safe havens;
Whereas, since February 24, 2022, airmen and guardians have responded to Russian 
        aggression against Ukraine by guarding the skies of members of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization (commonly referred to as ``NATO''), 
        transporting essential equipment to the Ukrainian military, and 
        providing critical support from space;
Whereas women have played a prominent role in the evolution of the Department of 
        the Air Force, courageously fighting alongside their male counterparts 
        and dedicating their lives to protecting peace, liberty, and freedom 
        around the world as they provide air and space power whenever and 
        wherever needed;
Whereas the Department of the Air Force has made tremendous strides in the 
        global warfighting domain of cyberspace by revolutionizing offensive and 
        defensive capabilities and effects with speed, agility, and surgical 
        precision, thereby ensuring the continuous command, control, and 
        execution of operations in contested, degraded, and limited 
        environments;
Whereas the Civil Air Patrol, as a Total Force partner and auxiliary of the 
        USAF, has maintained a steadfast commitment to the United States and the 
        communities of the United States through a proud legacy of service, from 
        the earliest days of World War II, when the Civil Air Patrol protected 
        the shorelines of the United States, through 2022, as the Civil Air 
        Patrol executes emergency service missions and aerospace education 
        programs;
Whereas the Department of the Air Force is steadfast in the commitment to 
        fielding a world-class air and space expeditionary force by recruiting, 
        training, and educating its officer, enlisted, and civilian corps 
        comprising the active duty, Guard, and Reserve components of the Total 
        Force;
Whereas airmen were imprisoned and tortured during several major conflicts, 
        including World War I, World War II, the Vietnam War, the Korean War, 
        and the Persian Gulf War, and, in the valiant tradition of airmen held 
        captive, continued serving the United States with honor and dignity 
        under the most inhumane circumstances;
Whereas airmen have earned the Medal of Honor 18 times, the Air Force Cross 203 
        times, the Distinguished Service Cross 42 times, and, since September 
        11, 2001, the Silver Star 92 times;
Whereas the USAF and the USSF are tremendous stewards of resources in developing 
        and applying groundbreaking technology to manage complex acquisition 
        programs for all air and space weapon systems throughout their life 
        cycles;
Whereas talented and dedicated airmen and guardians will continue to make the 
        investments necessary to accelerate transformation and modernization to 
        counter the adversaries of the United States and meet the future 
        challenges of an ever-changing world with limitless strength, resolve, 
        and patriotism;
Whereas the USAF and the USSF are committed to accelerating change and preparing 
        for the future, because failure is not an option;
Whereas, on every continent around the world, airmen and guardians have bravely 
        fought for freedom, liberty, and peace, preserved democracy, and 
        protected the people and interests of the United States;
Whereas the future success of the United States Armed Forces depends upon the 
        ability to control the air and space domains;
Whereas airmen and guardians will continue to be a tremendous resource for the 
        United States in fights across every domain and at every location, 
        thereby ensuring the safety and security of the United States; and
Whereas, for 75 years, the airmen and guardians of the Department of the Air 
        Force, through their exemplary service and sacrifice, have repeatedly 
        proven their value to the United States, the people of the United 
        States, the allies of the United States, and all free people of the 
        world: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the Senate--
            (1) commemorates the 75th anniversary of the establishment 
        of the Department of the Air Force; and
            (2) remembers, honors, and commends the achievements of the 
        United States Air Force and the United States Space Force in 
        serving and defending the United States.
                                 <all>
[House Hearing, 117 Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


                      COVID CHILD CARE CHALLENGES:
                   SUPPORTING FAMILIES AND CAREGIVERS

=======================================================================

                                HEARING

                               BEFORE THE

             SELECT SUBCOMMITTEE ON THE CORONAVIRUS CRISIS

                                 OF THE

                   COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND REFORM

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                    ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS

                             SECOND SESSION

                               __________

                             MARCH 2, 2022

                               __________

                           Serial No. 117-68

                               __________

      Printed for the use of the Committee on Oversight and Reform
      
[GRAPHIC NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]      


                       Available on: govinfo.gov,
                         oversight.house.gov or
                             docs.house.gov
                             
                               __________

                    U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE                    
47-066 PDF                 WASHINGTON : 2022                     
          
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                            
                   COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND REFORM

                CAROLYN B. MALONEY, New York, Chairwoman

Eleanor Holmes Norton, District of   James Comer, Kentucky, Ranking 
    Columbia                             Minority Member
Stephen F. Lynch, Massachusetts      Jim Jordan, Ohio
Jim Cooper, Tennessee                Virginia Foxx, North Carolina
Gerald E. Connolly, Virginia         Jody B. Hice, Georgia
Raja Krishnamoorthi, Illinois        Glenn Grothman, Wisconsin
Jamie Raskin, Maryland               Michael Cloud, Texas
Ro Khanna, California                Bob Gibbs, Ohio
Kweisi Mfume, Maryland               Clay Higgins, Louisiana
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, New York   Ralph Norman, South Carolina
Rashida Tlaib, Michigan              Pete Sessions, Texas
Katie Porter, California             Fred Keller, Pennsylvania
Cori Bush, Missouri                  Andy Biggs, Arizona
Shontel M. Brown, Ohio               Andrew Clyde, Georgia
Danny K. Davis, Illinois             Nancy Mace, South Carolina
Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Florida    Scott Franklin, Florida
Peter Welch, Vermont                 Jake LaTurner, Kansas
Henry C. ``Hank'' Johnson, Jr.,      Pat Fallon, Texas
    Georgia                          Yvette Herrell, New Mexico
John P. Sarbanes, Maryland           Byron Donalds, Florida
Jackie Speier, California            Vacancy
Robin L. Kelly, Illinois
Brenda L. Lawrence, Michigan
Mark DeSaulnier, California
Jimmy Gomez, California
Ayanna Pressley, Massachusetts

                      Russ Anello, Staff Director
        Jennifer Gaspar, Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel
                          Derek Collins, Clerk

                      Contact Number: 202-225-5051

                  Mark Marin, Minority Staff Director

             Select Subcommittee On The Coronavirus Crisis

               James E. Clyburn, South Carolina, Chairman
Maxine Waters, California            Steve Scalise, Louisiana, Ranking 
Carolyn B. Maloney, New York             Minority Member
Nydia M. Velazquez, New York         Jim Jordan, Ohio
Bill Foster, Illinois                Mark E. Green, Tennessee
Jamie Raskin, Maryland               Nicole Malliotakis, New York
Raja Krishnamoorthi, Illinois        Mariannette Miller-Meeks, Iowa
                        
                        
                        C  O  N  T  E  N  T  S

                              ----------                              
                                                                   Page
Hearing held on March 2, 2022....................................     1

                               Witnesses

Ms. Gina Forbes, Early Childhood Educator Parent Brunswick, Maine
Oral Statement...................................................     6

Dr. Betsey Stevenson, Ph.D., Professor of Public Policy, 
  Professor of Economics, University of Michigan
Oral Statement...................................................     8

Dr. Lea J.E. Austin, Ed.D., Executive Director, Center for the 
  Study of Child Care Employment University of California
Oral Statement...................................................     9

Ms. Carrie Lukas (Minority Witness), President, Independent 
  Women's Forum
Oral Statement...................................................    11

Dr. Lynette M. Fraga, Ph.D., Chief Executive Officer, Child Care 
  Aware of America
Oral Statement...................................................    13

Written opening statements and the written statements of the 
  witnesses are available on the U.S. House of Representatives 
  Document Repository at: docs.house.gov.

                           Index of Documents

                              ----------                              

Documents entered into the record during this hearing are listed 
  below.

  * Research Brief, ``COVID-19 means more students not learning 
  to read''; submitted by Ranking Member Steve Scalise.

  * Research Brief, ``Learning during COVID-19: Reading and math 
  achievement in the 2020-21 school year''; submitted by Ranking 
  Member Steve Scalise.

  * Brief, Snapshot of Test Scores and Pandemic Learning Models - 
  Virginia; submitted by Ranking Member Steve Scalise.

  * Research Report, Pandemic Schooling Mode and Student Test 
  Scores Evidence from U.S. School Districts; submitted by 
  Ranking Member Steve Scalise.

  * Letter, MomsRising Together, to Chairman Clyburn and Ranking 
  Member Scalise.

  * Memo, Taking the Win Over COVID-19, from Impact Research.

  * Letter, from The Bipartisan Policy Center, to Chairman 
  Clyburn and Ranking Member Scalise.

Documents are available at: docs.house.gov.

 
    COVID CHILD CARE CHALLENGES: SUPPORTING FAMILIES AND CAREGIVERS

                              ----------                              


                        Wednesday, March 2, 2022

                   House of Representatives
                  Committee on Oversight and Reform
              Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis
                                                   Washington, D.C.

    The select subcommittee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:09 
p.m., in room 2154, Rayburn House Office Building, and via 
Zoom; Hon. James Clyburn (chairman of the subcommittee) 
presiding.
    Present: Representatives Clyburn, Waters, Maloney, Foster, 
Raskin, Krishnamoorthi, Scalise, Jordan, and Miller-Meeks.
    Chairman Clyburn. [Presiding] Good afternoon. The committee 
will come to order.
    Without objection, the chair is authorized to declare a 
recess of the committee at any time.
    I now recognize myself for an opening statement.
    The coronavirus pandemic has put tremendous strain on 
America's families and caregivers. Many of us have seen 
firsthand in our own families, with our friends, and among our 
co-workers the difficult challenges that parents, teachers, and 
other caregivers have faced in the last few years. In the first 
several months of the pandemic, families and childcare 
providers were largely left to face these challenges alone. As 
a result, many were forced to drop out of the work force or to 
close their businesses. Approximately 60 percent of childcare 
providers closed in the spring of 2020. These closures led to 
over 375,000 childcare workers losing their jobs. Although many 
of those childcare providers were able to reopen, thousands of 
providers had closed permanently by 2021, contributing to a 
shortage that persists to this day.
    These sudden closures forced many parents to make difficult 
choices between keeping their jobs and caring for their 
children. Without the necessary support, parents with young 
children dropped out of the work force in the early days of the 
pandemic at alarmingly high rates. Now, nearly two years later, 
men with young children have returned to the work force at pre-
pandemic rates, yet the labor participation rate of women with 
young children has not fully recovered. In January 2022, the 
most recent month for which data are available, more than 1.1 
million women left the job or lost a job due to the need to 
care for young children. This disparity threatens to exacerbate 
longstanding gender-based economic inequality.
    Families paid high costs for children even before the 
pandemic. With the onset of the pandemic, childcare became even 
less affordable to parents with prices rising by more than 5 
percent in 2022. At the time that childcare costs for families 
were increasing, childcare worker pay remained low. In most 
states, the median wage for childcare workers, who are 
disproportionately women and minorities, was below the state's 
living wage. This combination of low wages and high costs is 
unsustainable and puts a great burden on childcare providers 
and families while slowing our economic recovery.
    Congress has taken decisive action by passing three Federal 
pandemic relief packages that each included funding 
specifically for childcare. Most significantly, the American 
Rescue Plan included a historic $39 billion investment in 
childcare. This investment has already had a positive impact on 
children providers. Early evidence indicates that these 
pandemic relief funds have helped childcare providers stay in 
business and raise wages. Forty-six percent of childcare 
providers surveyed in the summer of 2021 said the program 
likely would have closed without help from pandemic relief 
funds. Encouragingly, many recipients of relief funds also 
reported that their childcare workers have received increased 
compensation.
    The American Rescue Plan also gave financial support 
directly to parents and families to offset the rising costs of 
childcare. It temporarily expanded the child tax credit and 
delivered advanced monthly payments of $300 per young child 
from July through December 2021. American families have put 
these funds to good use. Census Bureau data shows that between 
5 and 7 million households used child tax credit advance 
payments to help cover childcare expenses. The American Rescue 
Plan also expanded the child and dependent care tax credit, 
providing additional assistance specifically for care. Although 
pandemic-related relief programs have helped families and 
providers cope with the immediate effects of the coronavirus, 
sustained Federal investment is still needed to aid recovery 
and address problems that existed before the pandemic.
    The Biden-Harris Administration's Build Back Better agenda 
includes comprehensive proposals to improve the quality and 
affordability of childcare while delivering the compensation 
that childcare workers and educators deserve. Continued 
investment in the childcare sector through existing Federal 
programs and the extension of the American Rescue Plan 
provisions would also support access and affordability. 
Extending and expanding the child tax credit with this advanced 
monthly payment structure would continue to aid the millions of 
households that have used those payments for childcare 
expenses. When we support American families and invest in the 
professionals who help to care for our Nation's children, we 
are making an investment in both our present and our future. 
The time is now to invest in childcare providers and families 
so that we can build a better, stronger, and more equitable 
economy.
    I would like to thank our witnesses for being here today. I 
look forward to hearing more about what more we can do to give 
families and childcare providers the support that they needed 
during the pandemic and beyond.
    I now recognize the ranking member for his opening 
statement.
    Mr. Scalise. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad we had this 
meeting here in the committee room in person. I would also like 
to thank all of our witnesses who are here with us today. I 
look forward to hearing their testimony.
    A hearing on this topic is long overdue. For more than two 
years, we have heard about the damage that U.S. COVID policies 
have done to our Nation's children as well as working parents. 
Parents pleaded with their local school boards to inject actual 
science and common sense in these rules. Congressional 
Republicans have sent letters, asked for hearings and 
briefings, and begged the CDC to explain the science that 
justified the harm that their ridiculous policies were causing 
to our kids.
    Here is what we know. Remote learning hurt children, both 
academically and emotionally, and scheduling disruptions at 
school and daycare centers created chaos for working families, 
hindering them from returning to the work force at a time when 
we need more workers. It is clearly one of the largest U.S. 
failures in policy that we have seen during this pandemic. Many 
Democrat-led states and teachers' union bosses refused to 
reopen schools for more than a year in some places, despite 
evidence that closures and instability harm America's children. 
In the summer of 2020, Republicans repeatedly called on 
Governors and school systems to fully reopen schools.
    Student learning loss due to remote or hybrid learning is 
astronomical. Millions of kids are behind in math and reading. 
Amplify, which is the curriculum and assessment provider, 
examined its test data for about 400,000 elementary school 
students and found that, ``At the middle of the 2021-2022 
school year, in every elementary grade, K through 5, the number 
of students at risk of not reading is higher than it was at the 
same point in the 2019-2020 school year.'' Mr. Chairman, I 
would like to submit four different studies into the record 
that have been done to detail the data and the detrimental 
impact that remote learning has had on America's children. 
Thank you.
    Mr. Scalise. On top of learning loss, children and 
teenagers are now experiencing a mental health crisis of 
historic proportions. The American Academy of Pediatrics 
declared a national state of emergency in children's mental 
health, and the U.S. Surgeon General issued a youth mental 
health advisory. Suicide attempts by 12-to 17-year-old girls 
rose 51 percent from early 2019 to early 2021. This is having a 
devastating impact on our young kids. When kids have been able 
to go back to school or to daycare, the CDC has pushed extreme 
quarantine policies, especially for kids that can't wear masks. 
This means that if one kid in a class gets COVID, the whole 
class is shut down for up to 10 days. Can you imagine the 
negative impact this is having not only on students, but also 
on their parents? Abrupt closures and long quarantines mean 
they miss work unexpectedly for many days at a time. These 
disruptions are caused by irrational COVID policies, and they 
continue to this day in many cases.
    According to a survey by The New York Times, in January, 
more than half of American children missed at least three days 
of school, about 25 percent missed more than a week, while 14 
percent of students missed nine or more days. This keeps 
parents from returning to the work force, and data shows that 
it especially has had a negative impact on women. On top of 
that, until last Friday, the CDC said that everyone over the 
age of two had to wear a mask, even though worldwide, most 
countries don't mask young kids in school due to the harm that 
it causes those kids. And the protection masks provide to 
children is unknown and might be very small. The CDC said kids 
should be masked for the last two years. This is something 
Republicans in Congress as well as parents across the country 
have been begging the CDC to change since we have come to learn 
so much more about COVID and its largely minimal impact on 
young kids compared to the well-documented massive damage that 
masks and remote learning are having on young children.
    Over the last few weeks, we have started to see mask 
mandates lifted in most major cities, including New York, 
Chicago, and Washington, DC, as well as Los Angeles in 
restaurants and other public spaces, yet, unbelievably, the 
mask mandates for children in schools and daycare centers 
remained. Their plan was to force kids to mask all day in 
school or at daycare, in most cases, even while they are 
outside, but yet, adults would be allowed to be maskless in 
grocery stores, restaurants, bars, and, of course, sporting 
events.
    I would like to note here that this hypocrisy of some of 
these nonsensical political science policies have been ongoing 
throughout the entire pandemic. Prominent Democrats have been 
caught ignoring their own masking rules while forcing those 
same rules on children for the last two years. Liberal elites 
have been spotted without masks at hair salons, the Met Gala, 
professional football games, fancy restaurants, and many, many 
more, while those same hypocritical leaders shamed others who 
didn't comply with their nonsensical mandates.
    But as we know now, we have had this COVID miracle in the 
last few days. Just in time for President Biden's State of the 
Union address last night, we saw just days ago Biden's Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention finally update its mask 
guidelines. The new guidelines mean that instead of 
recommending nearly the entire country mask indoors, now only 
28 percent are recommended to do so. So overnight, more than 70 
percent of the country, including kids in schools, don't have 
to mask anymore.
    So we should ask, Mr. Chairman, what changed? Did the 
science change? Again, it is not the medical science. It seemed 
like Democrats had an epiphany of political science, and what 
is that new science? Here we have excerpts from a memo by a 
group called Impact Research, which is a well-known Democrat 
polling firm that also happens to be where President Biden's 
pollster works. Note the memo, by the way, is dated February 
24, 2022, just days ago. So this is what it said. This is an 
assessment from a poll, not from medical science. ``Two-thirds 
of parents and 80 percent of teachers say the pandemic caused 
learning loss, and voters are overwhelmingly more worried about 
learning loss than kids getting COVID. Six in 10 Americans 
describe themselves as worn out by the pandemic. The more 
we''--and they are talking about Democrat-elected leaders right 
here--``The more we talk about the threat of COVID and 
onerously restricting people's lives because of it, the more we 
turn them against us and show them we're out of touch with 
their daily realities.'' I wish that was medical science that 
they were basing decisions on, but it was a poll just days 
before the State of the Union that got them to change course. 
That is the kind of thing that is infuriating parents.
    So Biden's CDC is only loosening its masking requirements 
now that Democrats' polling numbers are in the tank and the 
midterms are around the corner. During the campaign, Joe Biden 
promised repeatedly to ``follow the science,'' but apparently, 
the science changes when his polling changes. The American 
people see right through these masking political theater 
guidelines and will never forget how they played politics with 
our children by shuttering their schools and masking their 
faces, even as doctors were noting the harm that those mandates 
were causing to our children. People have lost faith in the 
CDC, and this brazen political stunt is further eroding what 
trust was left.
    Last night during the State of the Union, President Biden 
said, ``Let's stop looking at COVID-19 as a partisan dividing 
line.'' By the way, this is from the same President whose 
Administration directed the Department of Justice to 
investigate parents who were passionately expressing their 
First Amendment speech rights in opposition to many of these 
same regulations by going to school board meetings. And what 
did President Biden's Administration do? They tried to deem 
them as domestic terrorists for going to school board meetings 
and expressing their views, and that is after last night the 
President said stop using COVID-19 as a partisan dividing line. 
Well, I think those parents wouldn't be so angry if President 
Biden paid them an apology for the things he said about them 
and allowed his Administration to continue to call them names 
and try to shame them for standing up for the rights of their 
kids.
    So we are going to continue to push for medical science, 
not political science, and let's free up our children from this 
experiment that has destroyed millions of lives over these last 
two years. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back.
    Chairman Clyburn. I thank the ranking member for his 
statement. I would like to say as a parent of a school board 
member, it is not expressing. It is how you express that 
determines whether or not you are a terrorist. I would also 
like to say that I think it is because of the science and 
vaccinations that have begun to work that we had a change in 
policy, but that will not fall on deaf ears.
    I would like now to introduce our distinguished witnesses. 
Gina Forbes is an early childhood educator, former 
administrator, and parent based in Brunswick, Maine. Ms. Forbes 
has a master's in education and a license in early childhood 
education. She brings a wealth of experience to this issue as a 
parent, pre-school teacher, and school director. Dr. Betsey 
Stevenson is a professor of public policy and economics at 
University of Michigan. She is a labor economist who has 
published widely about the impact of public policies on 
outcomes both in the labor market and for families. Dr. 
Stevenson's research focuses on women's labor market 
experiences and the economic forces shaping American families. 
Dr. Stevenson served as a member of the Council of Economic 
Advisors from 2013 to 2015 and served as the chief economist of 
the United States Department of Labor from 2010 to 2011.
    Dr. Lea J.E. Austin is executive director of the Center for 
the Study of Childcare Employment at the University of 
California. Dr. Austin leads the Center's research and policy 
agenda aimed at improving the status and well-being of early 
educators. She has extensive experience in the areas of work 
force development, early childhood education, and public 
policy. Carrie L. Lukas is the president of Independent Women's 
Forum. She previously worked on Capitol Hill as a senior 
domestic policy analyst for the House Republican Policy 
Committee and at the Cato Institute. Dr. Lynette Fraga is the 
CEO of Child Care Aware and a leading voice on children's 
policy, practice, and research. Dr. Fraga has 25 years of 
experience as an educator, program director, and executive 
leader, working on behalf of children and families. Since 
beginning her career in early childhood education as a teacher 
in infant, toddler, and preschool classrooms, Dr. Fraga has 
held positions at the local, state, and national levels within 
nonprofit corporations and higher education sectors.
    Will the witnesses please rise if you are here and those of 
you who cannot be here, and raise your right hands?
    Do you swear or affirm that the testimony you are about to 
give is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, 
so help you God?
    [A chorus of ayes.]
    Chairman Clyburn. You may be seated. Let the record show 
that the witnesses answered in the affirmative.
    Without objection, your written statements will be made a 
part of the record.
    Ms. Forbes, you are now recognized for five minutes for 
your opening statement.

STATEMENT OF GINA FORBES, EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATOR AND PARENT, 
                        BRUNSWICK, MAINE

    Ms. Forbes. Thank you. Good afternoon, Chairman Clyburn and 
members of the Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis. I 
am honored and grateful for the opportunity to testify today. 
My name is Gina Forbes, and I'm here to share my experience as 
a parent and early childhood educator. I currently have a 13-
year-old son and an almost two-year-old daughter, and I've been 
working with young children and families for nearly 18 years. 
I'll begin today by sharing my experience of being an early 
childhood educator and past director of a childcare center and 
then share my experience of navigating the challenges of 
childcare during the COVID-19 pandemic as a parent.
    From 2013 until June 2021, I worked at a program called 
Roots & Fruits Preschool in South Portland, Maine. I began as a 
teacher and was later hired as director in 2017. Roots & Fruits 
was nationally accredited and was of the highest quality 
rating. My own son attended at age four, and I watched him 
thrive in the program. I was able to witness firsthand how 
high-quality early education can set children up for lifelong 
success. As director, I became very intimate with the joys and 
challenges of running a childcare program. I was, first and 
foremost, committed to quality education for the children in 
our care. There was always a delicate balancing act of 
enrolling enough children to be financially successful while 
keeping prices affordable to families, and assuring that there 
were not too many children enrolled for our standard of care.
    It was important to our organization that we serve a 
diverse array of families from a variety of backgrounds, 
including income levels. The business structure of our 
organization, and in the field in general, was set up so that 
the only way to address increased costs, including increasing 
staff wages, was to increase tuition rates for families. 
Keeping the cost of care accessible to families meant keeping 
wages at or below a certain level for staff. This lack of fair 
pay, inability to offer health and other benefits, and the high 
demands of the job is a recipe for teacher burnout, stress, and 
sometimes turnover.
    I'm sharing this information about pre-pandemic times 
because it has everything to do with the crisis we found 
ourselves in when March 2020 came around. In the initial first 
wave of COVID-19, we closed our school and remained closed 
until mid-June when we had clear guidelines about how to run a 
childcare program safely. When we finally had a reopening plan, 
it was at reduced enrollment, just over half of our usual 
functioning. To run the program, we had to raise tuition for 
families, and even this was not going to be enough. We 
projected a deficit for the year due to the loss associated 
with lower enrollment and the cost of additional safety 
materials and procedures.
    Thankfully, during the school year, we received a PPP loan 
and Federal COVID relief funds that made it possible for us to 
run our program. These funds covered costs related to 
additional cleaning supplies, PPE, and helped cover the losses 
from our closure and lower enrollment. We were also able to 
give some additional bonuses to staff in lieu of hazard pay. 
Ultimately, these funds helped us significantly, but it was not 
enough to keep us open long term. With razor-thin margins and 
challenges present long before the pandemic, what we needed to 
be truly sustainable was a significant and committed long-term 
financial investment from state and Federal funds. We could've 
chosen to continue to raise our tuition rates, but this would 
put our organization's values of offering care to diverse 
families at risk. It was for these reasons that I, along with 
our board of directors, decided to close the Roots & Fruits 
Program, and in June 2021, I handed over the keys to the 
building and closed our doors permanently.
    As a parent, the impact of COVID-19 on the childcare sector 
has been felt in very challenging ways. Since Roots & Fruits 
closed, I have had to find a new childcare arrangements for my 
youngest child. We were able to find an amazing childcare 
provider who offers local in-home care. However, it is only 
part-time, and it is far more expensive than we had budgeted 
for or can truly afford. We have inquired about other childcare 
possibilities that would better fit our budget. However, every 
program we have spoken to have waitlists, and some for years to 
come. It is an understatement to say that it is a constant and 
persistent stress on me and my family to figure out how to 
afford high-quality childcare.
    One small respite from this ongoing stress was receiving 
the monthly child tax credit payments, which went directly 
toward childcare costs. Without them, I'm struggling to figure 
out if I can continue to work or if I need to remove myself 
from the work force to care for our young child. I can't help 
but be reminded that childcare workers are truly the work force 
behind the work force.
    The issues that I described today are not new but are built 
into the childcare system as it has existed for many years. The 
pandemic has significantly exacerbated those issues. High-
quality early education and care is the backbone of our 
society, and I believe that we need to fund it accordingly. Our 
children, families, and educators deserve nothing less.
    Thank you for your time, and I look forward to your 
questions.
    Chairman Clyburn. Thank you very much, Ms. Forbes.
    We will now hear from Dr. Stevenson. Dr. Stevenson, you are 
recognized for five minutes.

   STATEMENT OF BETSEY STEVENSON, PH.D., PROFESSOR OF PUBLIC 
   POLICY AND PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

    Ms. Stevenson. Thank you, Chairman Clyburn, Ranking Member 
Scalise, and distinguished members of the committee. I 
appreciate the invitation to speak to you today.
    The U.S. economy and employment has evolved in a way that 
makes childcare now central to its functioning. While childcare 
is not a woman's issue, the pandemic did have a unique impact 
on women, and the evolution of women's role in the economy 
helps to explain how we've arrived at this critical juncture. 
While I detail the transition more in my written testimony, let 
me explain where we're currently at.
    Women are now the most educated workers in our labor force, 
and at the start of the pandemic, women held the majority of 
jobs. In our recovery from the 2008 recession, the rise of 
women's labor force participation drove the strong recovery 
with two-thirds of the job growth going to jobs held by women. 
Families rely on women's earnings, and our economy relies on 
the skills and efforts of women.
    Women's personal lives have also undergone a profound 
shift. The result is that mothers with kids in the home as the 
pandemic hit were older with more education and more likely to 
be working than mothers with kids in the home during previous 
recessions. Stepping out of the labor force for these mothers 
was a less viable option, and yet, for some of these mothers, 
it was the only option available. Two-thirds of the childcare 
centers had closed by April 2020, and the number of childcare 
workers dropped 34 percent. Schools around the country turned 
to remote learning, and many remained remote or partially 
remote for more than a year. The pandemic made it clear that 
schools and childcare both serve a dual purpose: educate and 
care for children.
    Our childcare challenges are ongoing, both because the 
pandemic is ongoing and because our childcare infrastructure 
was inadequate prior to the pandemic. While childcare 
disruptions have occurred across the income spectrum, they have 
disproportionately impacted lower-wage workers and single 
parents with devastating effects on their employment and 
earnings. Childcare-related constraints led to more women than 
men losing jobs during the pandemic. However, childcare 
disruptions affected work way beyond just job loss. Fifty-nine 
percent of parents said that their employment was affected. 
They turned down promotions, changed employment, paused 
education or training, and fathers made these sacrifices even 
more frequently than mothers. These decisions not only mean 
lower incomes for families, but they mean lower potential 
output for the U.S. economy.
    Even in good economic times, finding high-quality, 
affordable childcare is challenging for parents. The cost of 
childcare, particularly high-quality childcare, prior to the 
pandemic made working too expensive for some parents, and yet 
the childcare market is still far from recovering due to these 
inadequate levels of access and affordability. Research has 
found that childcare is particularly sensitive to economic 
downturns and recovers much more slowly than the rest of the 
economy. Employment and childcare remains more than 10 percent 
below pre-pandemic levels even though non-farm employment 
remains only 1.9 percent below its February 2020 level. The 
American Rescue Plan authorized $39 billion for childcare, much 
of which is just now starting to get disbursed. And while this 
crucial funding will serve as needed emergency support for a 
childcare infrastructure, it does not provide the long-term 
structural support childcare needs.
    Early childhood educators generate enormous financial 
benefits by engaging in developmentally appropriate, 
curriculum-based activities that lead to higher lifetime 
earnings for the children in their care, and yet childcare 
workers are some of the lowest-paid workers in our country. 
Children need committed professionals to provide care and 
developmentally appropriate skills, but few people have the 
luxury of gaining training in early childhood education and 
committing to the profession for $12 an hour, particularly if 
they can make twice as much by seeking employment now at 
Target.
    The low pay is one reason that childcare has such a high 
turnover of workers compared to other jobs in education, 
creating even further instability in the childcare sector. The 
pay of childcare providers must and will rise due to market 
forces. These market forces will also ultimately raise the cost 
of childcare, making childcare and, thus, labor market 
participation for parents even more unaffordable. The biggest 
economic problem the U.S. currently faces is low labor force 
participation. It's likely to contribute to ongoing inflation. 
Solving this problem requires investing more in our youngest 
citizens and supporting their families with a more reliable, 
affordable, and higher-quality childcare sector.
    Thank you, and I welcome your questions.
    Chairman Clyburn. Thank you, Dr. Stevenson.
    We will now hear from Dr. Austin. Dr. Austin, you are 
recognized for five minutes.

STATEMENT OF LEA J.E. AUSTIN, ED.D, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, CENTER 
     FOR THE STUDY OF CHILD CARE EMPLOYMENT, UNIVERSITY OF 
                           CALIFORNIA

    Ms. Austin. Hi. Thank you, Chairman Clyburn and members of 
the committee, for the opportunity to speak with you today 
about the plight of childcare in America.
    If nothing else, the pandemic has made visible that stable, 
quality childcare is not something that is just nice to have. 
It is a necessity, yet it's severely under resourced and a 
crumbling component of our Nation's social infrastructure. 
Leading up to the pandemic, about half of families who needed 
childcare in the U.S. didn't have access to it. Parents, as we 
have heard, mostly mothers, were losing about $37 billion in 
income each year because they had to reduce work hours or drop 
out of the work force entirely because of childcare issues. 
Businesses were losing an estimated $12.7 billion a year due to 
childcare challenges among employees, and childcare workers 
were subsidizing the true cost of services with the poverty-
level wages paid to them.
    The pandemic didn't create these circumstances, but it 
exacerbated them, and it brought childcare in this country to 
the brink of collapse. Unfortunately, it's no wonder. Care and 
early education, work that is performed almost exclusively by 
women, has long been de-valued. Childcare businesses, most of 
which are small and women-owned, operate on very thin margins, 
and the slightest drop in enrollment and income was all it took 
for many to permanently close. By July 2020, 1 in 5 childcare 
providers in California, for example, had already fallen behind 
on mortgage or rent payments for their business. Most childcare 
programs have to rely on what parents can afford to pay to fund 
their programs, and this renders childcare workers, as we've 
heard, among the lowest-paid workers in every state with an 
average wage of about $12 an hour. And within that, we see 
racial pay gaps and pay penalties, especially for those who are 
working with the youngest children: our infants and toddlers.
    For programs that have managed to stay open, they're having 
trouble staffing up. They simply can't compete with businesses, 
like retail and food service, which are now paying starting 
wages of $15 or more and also offering benefits. It's not 
hyperbole to say that conditions are dire for the childcare 
work force. Ninety-eight other occupations in this country are 
paid more than childcare workers. Poverty rates are double 
those of other workers in general and, on average, eight times 
higher than that of K-8 teachers. In another study, we found 
that a third of childcare workers we surveyed were food 
insecure, and fewer than 15 percent would be able to withstand 
a $400 emergency. These findings aren't unique to California. 
Researchers have identified similar financial stressors in 
states, for example, like Nebraska, Louisiana, and Oregon.
    To bring attention to their persistently low wages, for 
decades, childcare workers have posed this riddle: ``Why did 
the childcare worker cross the road? To get to her second 
job.'' It wasn't meant to be funny then, and it is certainly no 
joke today. My colleague, Dr. Caitlin McLean, met Shania Bell, 
a childcare worker who literally crossed the street for a 
better-paying job at a hardware store, every day walking past 
the job and the children she loved and that she was really good 
at for a job that allowed her to actually pay her bills. A 
similar scenario is playing out all across the country as 
evidenced by the program closures and the childcare jobs 
shortages. We have lost, to date, 131,000 childcare jobs since 
February 2020.
    The Federal pandemic relief programs have provided 
important stopgap measures. Many states jumped at the 
opportunity to invest in their work force. We know of at least 
28 that are specifically using Federal relief funds to 
intentionally support wages and the recruitment and retention 
of early educators. Critically, relief has helped many hold on, 
but it cannot, nor was it designed to, provide long-term fixes. 
Our economy relies on workers who are parents, and so many 
parents cannot work without reliable childcare, and childcare 
cannot work effectively until its own work force is secure. 
Dependable, long-term investments that de-couple what parents 
can afford from what workers are paid is the key to ensuring 
that childcare programs are able to stay open and to recruit 
and retain staff who can meet America's childcare needs.
    I appreciate the opportunity to appear before the 
committee, and I look forward to your questions.
    Chairman Clyburn. Thank you, Dr. Austin.
    We will now hear from Ms. Lukas. Ms. Lukas, you are 
recognized for five minutes.
    Ms. Lukas. Oops, sorry.

STATEMENT OF CARRIE LUKAS, PRESIDENT, INDEPENDENT WOMEN'S FORUM

    Ms. Lukas. Good afternoon. I am Carrie Lukas, president of 
Independent Women's Forum. Independent Women's Forum is a non-
profit organization dedicated to developing and advancing 
policies that aren't just well-intended but that actually 
enhance people's freedom, opportunity, and well-being. I am 
also mother to five kids between the ages of 7 and 16. I am 
going to quickly run through what I think of as five key 
lessons we learned during COVID-19 about childcare and 
supporting families and caregivers.
    First and most importantly, we should reject any public 
policy changes that would make our childcare and preschool 
systems function more like our K through 12 public schools. 
Like many working parents during COVID-19, I had to juggle my 
job along with managing my kids schooling online. Where I live, 
most private schools provided in-person learning service by 
fall 2020, but our public schools fought to stay closed for 
another seven months. That was long after it made any sense 
from a COVID or health perspective, long after our teachers had 
been given priority access to vaccines, and long after it was 
obvious that it was an utter catastrophe in terms of emotional 
health and lost learning for students, particularly for 
children from low-income families, those with disabilities, and 
those for whom English is a second language.
    The failures of our K through 12 schools contrast with the 
childcare sector. At the height of the pandemic, according to 
HHS, about 60 percent of childcare centers closed. The rest 
stayed opened to serve children of critical workers. By the end 
of 2020, however, an estimated 73 percent of daycare, 
preschool, and childcare programs had reopened. In contrast, at 
the end of 2020, only about a third of K through 12 public 
schools were providing fully in-person services. Public schools 
behaved this way because they do not see parents and students 
as their customers. Why would they? Their ability to pay the 
bills and keep their jobs depends on pleasing government 
officials, not on serving families. Parents should fight to 
keep this from becoming the same situation for childcare and 
preschools.
    The second big takeaway is that policymakers at all levels 
of government should seek to eliminate regulations that aren't 
directly related to safety and quality so that a greater 
diversity of providers, especially smaller-and at-home 
providers, enter the marketplace so that parents have more and 
better options. As the other witnesses have attested to, COVID 
has forced many daycare providers out of business, but, as we 
all know, sadly, this was a bad trend that was already ongoing. 
The number of at-home daycare providers fell by half between 
2005 and 2017. A review of state-based childcare regulations 
reveals ludicrous examples of rules that dictate the minutiae 
of care: the number of art supplies you have to have, the exact 
size of balls per children. This clearly isn't necessary for 
kids and just creates headaches and drives up costs for 
providers.
    Third, policymakers should consider tax relief for those 
who have very young children since they often do face large 
expenses. However, policymakers should not make that financial 
support conditional on childcare arrangements. Incentivizing 
the use of paid childcare isn't fair to all the families with 
loved ones--parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles--who provide 
loving care for children in their lives for free while 
foregoing paid employment.
    Fourth, government funding for childcare is often sold as a 
surefire way to improve life outcomes for children. However, 
the evidence simply doesn't bear this out. A recent study in 
Tennessee of their state-run pre-K program revealed it had 
long-term negative effects on children's achievements and 
behavior. Now, that doesn't mean that no study will ever find 
benefits associated with preschool, nor does it mean that 
daycare and childcare isn't a vital service for millions of 
children and families. But it should encourage some more 
humility and caution among policymakers and warn us away from 
trying to push all children into government-approved childcare 
centers since that could do more harm than good.
    Finally, the recent proposed Build Back Better Plan would 
have made the Federal Government the biggest player in daycare 
and preschool programs, and this approach is incredibly 
dangerous and should be rejected. Put aside the enormous cost 
to taxpayers and potentially for millions of families. These 
government regulations will discourage innovation and create a 
less diverse childcare sector. In fact, all of the battles that 
we see raging about public K through 12 schools over the 
content of curriculum, the use of pronouns, sex ed, masking 
policies, they will be coming to your local daycare and 
preschool if government becomes the primary funder and sets the 
rules for what constitutes an approved daycare provider.
    We see some of this happening already with Head Start. You 
know, right now, everyone's unmasking, but not the poor 2-and 
3-year-olds that are in our Head Start Programs, and that seems 
a tragedy. Two-year-olds shouldn't be political footballs for 
Federal officials, and we need to keep the Federal Government 
as far away as possible from deciding what happens in daycare 
and preschool.
    Thank you.
    Chairman Clyburn. Thank you, Ms. Lukas.
    Finally, we will hear from Dr. Fraga. Dr. Fraga, you are 
recognized for five minutes. Am I pronouncing that name 
correct?
    Ms. Fraga. ``FRAH-gah'' is correct. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman.
    Chairman Clyburn. Thank you.

STATEMENT OF LYNETTE M. FRAGA, PH.D., CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, 
                  CHILD CARE AWARE OF AMERICA

    Ms. Fraga. Chairman Clyburn, Ranking Member Scalise, 
members of the Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis, 
thank you for inviting me to testify here today.
    Without question, the pandemic highlighted the growing lack 
of access to affordable, quality childcare in the United 
States. To be clear, childcare was already in crisis before the 
pandemic. The pandemic only made it worse. This longstanding, 
exacerbated state of childcare crisis has negatively impacted 
child development and family economic security for too long.
    Child Care Aware of America is the leading voice on 
childcare, and as CEO, I have the good fortune of working with 
a network of childcare resource and referral agencies, 
childcare programs and educators, and families across the 
country. We lead projects that increase the quality and 
availability of childcare, conduct research, and advocate for 
policies that positively impact the lives of children and 
families. Simply put, our work places is at the nexus of nearly 
every challenge and stressor facing our Nation's childcare 
system today.
    Last month, CCAOA released, ``Demanding Change: Repairing 
Our Childcare System,'' which outlines how the U.S. childcare 
system has changed since the beginning of the COVID-19 
pandemic. We found that between December 2019 and March 2021, 
nearly 16,000 childcare programs across 37 states have 
permanently closed, representing a nine-percent decline in the 
total number of licensed childcare providers, both center and 
home based. At the same time, childcare continues to be 
unaffordable and inaccessible for too many families.
    In 2020, the national annual average price of childcare was 
between $9,800 and $10,200 if you take into account the annual 
average price of all settings and types of care. In many 
states, the annual price of center-based childcare for an 
infant exceeds the annual cost of in-state tuition at a public 
four-year university. Additionally, almost half of parents with 
children under age six searching for care in the past two years 
said the greatest barriers to access were cost, lack of 
available spaces, and location. This is partly due to the 
specific impacts of the pandemic. Childcare providers are 
experiencing higher operating costs, challenges retaining their 
work force, and lower or fluctuating attendance, which directly 
impacts their financial viability.
    Even before the pandemic, the supply of childcare was 
decreasing, and the price of childcare was out of reach for 
parents. Insufficient public investment in childcare has left 
families and childcare providers to bear the financial burden 
of supporting an unsustainably, under-resourced system. 
Thankfully, Congress stepped in to help the childcare system 
cope with immediate pandemic-driven issues with three relief 
packages. States have leveraged these flexible funds to meet 
their unique needs, and no two states are spending dollars in 
the same way.
    Relief funds have helped thousands of childcare programs 
remain open during the pandemic, given more families access to 
high-quality care in a variety of settings so they could return 
to work, and have helped many early childhood educators to be 
more fairly compensated. Simply put, COVID relief funds have 
been a lifeline for many childcare programs. The March 2021 
American Rescue Plan included $39 billion dedicated for 
childcare relief, and those funds were divided up into two 
pots: $24 billion for Stabilization grants and $15 billion in 
discretionary funding. While state disbursement of funds was 
initially slow, states have made progress. As of February 2022, 
47 states and the District of Columbia launched their 
Stabilization Grant applications. Good examples have emerged of 
how states, many in partnership with intermediaries like 
childcare resource and referral agencies, are ensuring the 
Stabilization Grant process is equitable, efficient, and 
transparent.
    States have also made progress spending their discretionary 
funds. The most common policies nationwide have included 
increasing subsidy eligibility and eliminating co-pays for 
families, increasing compensation and benefits for educators, 
and improving provider payment policies. This is welcome news 
given the pandemic has added to the challenges of work force 
recruitment and retention with workers leaving the field 
temporarily or permanently to find higher-paid work and 
benefits during a time of health and economic uncertainty. We 
are already seeing the impact of these relief funds. In 
Maryland, 90 percent of the 5,757 applications for funding 
received grants. In New York, 14,866 funding requests have been 
approved with over 10,000 payments fully dispersed.
    Despite relief funds, the childcare industry is still 
facing serious challenges. The positive changes secured by the 
short-term addition of relief funding make a strong argument 
for why longer-term investments are needed. All the stories you 
have heard and will hear today are connected to why we need a 
system of childcare that honors its work force, supports its 
families, and truly cares for its children.
    Thank you again for the opportunity to appear before the 
subcommittee today. I look forward to answering your questions.
    Chairman Clyburn. Thank you so much, Dr. Fraga.
    I am going to yield first to Ms. Waters for five minutes of 
questions.
    Ms. Waters. Thank you so very much. I heard what you said, 
``questions,'' but I want to thank you for your patience and 
your tolerance.
    [Laughter.]
    Ms. Waters. I want to thank you because when I first heard 
Mr. Scalise start to talk about this issue, I thought, oh my 
God, we are going to have bipartisan support for childcare, and 
then he went into this political argument about math. So I 
thank you for your tolerance.
    Let me get to the question. The pandemic hit many of our 
essential workers very hard, and childcare providers were among 
those who felt the brunt of the pandemic's impact. More than 
370,000 childcare workers lost their jobs, and thousands of 
childcare centers closed. And so this is a graphic that shows 
the pandemic caused dramatic decline in childcare capacity. It 
is dramatic, absolutely. So, Dr. Austin, your center has 
published reports showing the impact of the pandemic on 
childcare workers and early educators, who are overwhelmingly 
women and disproportionately women of color. Like many 
essential workers and small business owners, they faced 
incredible economic challenges during the pandemic. Dr. Austin, 
what financial difficulties did the pandemic bring for 
childcare workers and early educators?
    Ms. Austin. Thank you for your question. The pandemic 
really just pulled the rug out from under our childcare work 
force. Again, you know, these are folks who are earning $12 an 
hour. As you know, the country closed in the early stages of 
the pandemic. Childcare continued to show up, and they 
continued to show up without resources for quite some time 
until we finally got some relief packages. So we saw that 
programs were falling behind on their mortgage. For our home-
based providers, the mortgage is their house. That is where 
they live, and so they were taking on debt. People were working 
without paying themselves and falling further and further 
behind.
    And we see, you know, high rates of economic insecurity 
being reported. People are food insecure, and the result is we 
see that people are walking away. They have been demoralized by 
the treatment that they received, that they did stay open. Very 
few states initially in that first year offered hazard pay for 
childcare workers, and so folks are walking away. There are 
saying, you know, we have had enough, and we are going to go 
get those jobs at Target and Starbucks where they are paying 
$15, $17 an hour and able to offer them benefits. So it really 
undermined folks in their own lives.
    Ms. Waters. Well, thank you so very much. Is that Dr. 
``FRAY-gah'' or ``FRAH-gah?''
    Ms. Fraga. Dr. ``FRAH-gah.''
    Ms. Waters. ``FRAH-gah.'' You talked about this being a 
problem prior to the pandemic, and I reflected on my early 
years as a young mother with two children and desperate for 
childcare, and the best I could do was get the lady who lived 
in the back of me, who was half ill herself and aged, to try 
and watch my children while I worked. And so many of us have 
been struggling for years when we are young mothers, you know, 
before our careers, where we absolutely, you know, realized 
that we needed something better. We needed more. And, of 
course, I come from the Head Start Program having worked in 
Head Start while I could not get childcare for my children. And 
so, tell us how bad it is. I know you alluded to this, but 
would you again reiterate for Mr. Scalise, in particular, about 
how bad it is?
    Ms. Fraga. Yes. Thank you for your question, Representative 
Waters. It is a challenge, and a trauma, and a tragedy, 
frankly, for so many of our early care and education providers 
and for our families. This is creating a tremendous amount of 
stress. Prior to the pandemic, we were already seeing a 
decrease in the early childhood work force. Subsequent to the 
pandemic, we are seeing hundreds of thousands of jobs being 
lost by the early care and education work force and the stress 
that is created that Dr. Austin named--housing insecurity, 
financial insecurity, et cetera--that these small business 
owner women, and often minority-owned women business owners, 
really experiencing a great deal of stress, not only for 
families who are unable to access care, but also for those 
early care and education providers who are also under a great 
deal of stress. And remember, these are the individuals who are 
in classrooms and in early learning programs with our Nation's 
children, so incredibly important for us to continue to move 
forward and supporting our children.
    Ms. Waters. Thank you so very much. I hope Mr. Scalise 
heard you.
    Mr. Scalise. Would the gentlelady yield? I would be happy 
to----
    Ms. Waters. The gentlelady has no time.
    [Laughter.]
    Mr. Scalise. That is clear. I will answer your question on 
my time.
    Chairman Clyburn. It is now your time.
    Mr. Scalise. Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    [Laughter.]
    Mr. Scalise. To followup where the gentlelady from 
California left off, she was, I guess, criticizing the 
politics, and, frankly, I would share with her that same 
criticism. The problem is that I was quoting President Biden's 
polling firm. There was no science that the CDC fell on to 
change the guidance. It was the polling firm from President 
Biden that said, literally days before CDC changed the 
guidance, ``Two-thirds of parents and 80 percent of teachers 
say the pandemic caused learning loss, and voters are 
overwhelmingly more worried about the learning loss.'' They 
went on to say, ``The more we talk''--``we,'' being the 
Democrats--``The more we talk about the threat of COVID and 
onerously restrict people's lives because of it, the more we 
turn them against us and show them we're out of touch with 
their daily realities.'' Then they went on to say, ``And if 
Democrats continue to hold a posture that prioritizes COVID 
precautions over learning, how to live in a world where COVID 
exists but does not dominate, they risk paying dearly for it in 
November.'' So President Biden's polling firm just days ago 
released this memo warning Democrats that their radical 
positions on COVID are hurting their chances of winning in 
November, and then the CDC turned around and changed their 
rules.
    Now, we have been urging them to change the rules for a 
long time because their rules were wrong, but they wouldn't do 
it because it was hurting kids. They did it because their 
pollster told them it was going to hurt their chances of 
getting elected in November. And so----
    Mr. Foster. Would the gentleman yield for a question?
    Mr. Scalise. That is the political science that President 
Biden's polling firm laid out. I would be happy to yield.
    Mr. Foster. Are you presenting evidence that that affected 
their decision rather than the simple fact that the amount of 
virus circulation has been dropping like a rock, and when the 
virus in circulation drops to a low enough level, you no longer 
need masks?
    Mr. Scalise. Reclaiming my time. We have seen the 
circulation drop in previous months, and yet they didn't change 
the guidance from CDC for that. You know, what we do know, and, 
again, there is a history within the White House of 
manipulating the science and their decisions based on 
influencing. Here it is, polling influence. We saw the teachers 
union influence their recommendation on schools in the past. 
That is well documented, by the way. We have talked about that 
in this committee before. So the Biden Administration has a 
history. Despite Joe Biden as a candidate saying we are going 
to follow the science, he has manipulated the science in the 
past about union bosses. Now he is manipulating the science to 
bow to his own horrible polling. I would be happy, by the way, 
to submit this for the record, Mr. Chairman. This was a memo 
February 24, 2022, from President Biden's polling firm where 
they made these recommendations that this is based upon.
    Mr. Scalise. Now, I would like to get to some questions. 
Ms. Lukas, I appreciated your recommendation. Ms. Waters, I am 
glad we got to clear that up.
    Ms. Lukas, your recommendations I very much appreciate. I 
want to talk about the damage we have seen with kids. We have 
had many hearings in this committee where we talked about the 
damage that kids are experiencing in the classroom from not 
learning properly if they are not in the classroom, but also 
even the masking guidelines, what it is doing to the psyche of 
our young children. Suicides through the roof. Again, looking 
at the data, suicide attempts by 12-to 17-year-old girls are at 
51 percent from early 2019 to 2021. Can you explain how the 
CDC's flawed guidance has actually contributed to the mental 
health crisis that we see our young kids facing?
    Ms. Lukas. Well, certainly. I mean, it is interesting 
because different localities have made different decisions when 
it comes to how to handle schools. So there have been some 
schools that have been open and providing in-person learning, 
and you can see the differences where schools have been closed 
the longest. There has been the greatest learning losses and 
then these increases in mental health and other issues, 
including rising obesity from kids being prevented from sports. 
All of these are contributing to problems when we come to 
school closures.
    With masking, it will be interesting because this is a 
tremendous experiment that we have been conducted on young 
children. We knew that young children are not very vulnerable 
to COVID and that COVID-19 was, you know, mercifully gentle 
with kids and the kids' risks are low. We don't yet know all of 
the damage that we have done in terms of kids' speech 
development. We know that speech development, there are 
evidence that there have been declines, but the mental health 
impact we will be discovering for years to come just how 
damaging this has been to this next generation.
    Mr. Scalise. Thanks. And we know from other studies that 
kids who don't learn proficiently, especially in reading and 
some of the basic skills, if they don't read, for example, by 
the third grade, that they are more likely to leave school 
without a diploma than proficient readers. So if you look at 
these disparities where, again, some school systems followed 
the science and stayed open, some bowed to the unions and 
closed, do we know what kind of damage this is going to cause 
to our kids long term?
    Ms. Lukas. Yes. I mean, McKinsey & Company just came out 
with a study that showed that there is an estimated net 
learning loss because of the learning gaps that have been 
created by school closures of about $50,000 of lost potential 
income in the future, and this isn't evenly distributed. 
Obviously, the places where the in-person learning was denied 
for the longest, which tended to be overwhelmingly lower-income 
minority communities, that they were disproportionately 
affected and will have the longest harm long term.
    Mr. Scalise. Well, thanks. And, Mr. Chairman, we will try 
to get that study and see if we can get that included in the 
record later. Thank you very much.
    Chairman Clyburn. Thank you very much. The Chair now 
recognizes himself for five minutes.
    Dr. Fraga, I want to, you know, ask you questions about $39 
billion of support for childcare recovery, including the $24 
billion for Stabilization Grant providers. I want to know how 
important you think these stabilization grants are.
    Ms. Fraga. Thank you for the question, Chairman Clyburn. 
Well, every state has actually approached the Stabilization 
grants differently. There have been a number of trends that we 
have seen across the country that support equity, efficiency, 
and transparency in distribution of the Stabilization grants. 
To be clear, these grants have been incredibly helpful for 
states, for example, in the realm of equity, populations like 
infants and toddlers and those programs who are open during 
non-traditional hours. In some states, there are additional 
tiers of support for those programs. And efficiency, we are 
seeing distribution of funding being through direct deposits, 
for example, though they are available for checks, simple opt-
out processes in some states, so the ability for there to be 
some level of efficiency. And also transparency, which is 
incredibly important, a wealth of information on who has 
applied for and been approved for the ability to be able to 
receive grants.
    So these are all ways that these Stabilization grants have 
been able to be helpful for programs, and for providers, and 
for families so that they can be able to access programs, and 
we have really seen a tremendous amount of effort. We are now 
at almost all states who have at least applications up online 
so that folks can access them, and we are seeing thousands of 
these grants being distributed to providers who really need it 
in real time.
    Chairman Clyburn. Well, thank you for that. I want to go 
back. The ranking member talked about the child needing to be 
reading by the third grade or what the catastrophic 
consequences are. As a former public school teacher, I want to 
ask you, are you familiar or are you keeping up with how this 
$15 billion is being spent and what kind of programs coming 
forward, because I am particularly interested in the fact that 
we keep talking about grade school. We aren't talking about 
those childcare centers that got closed when kids were 3, 4, 
and 5 years old and what would happen then when they finally 
get to school because the childcare centers were closed.
    Ms. Fraga. Yes.
    Chairman Clyburn. These kids weren't getting anything: no 
preparation, no Head Start, no nothing, if I might use that 
double negative. Can you tell us about that $15 billion?
    Ms. Fraga. Of course, yes. So I think one of the initial 
and sort of most important things that we need to emphasize is 
that it is so critically important for childcare programs to be 
affordable, accessible, and of quality. And that is really 
where a lot of our intention and what we are seeing happening 
in states, is to ensure that accessibility comes by way of 
families lowering the eligibility for programs, ensuring that 
for programs, that they are getting the supports they need in 
order to stay open, the grant funding that they need so that 
they can stay open. We need to ensure that as we are thinking 
about, and what we are seeing in the trend data right now is 
that there are real intentional dollars going to the fact that, 
again, to your point, some of these programs have closed either 
temporarily or leading to permanent closure. What that impacts 
are the inability for parents to be able to access quality 
childcare, for these families to be able to return to work, for 
children to be able to be nurtured and safe in quality 
settings. That is where these dollars are going in order to 
support the whole system of care, which is incredibly important 
for our children and for our families.
    We talk about issues related to mental health and stress. 
Those are not only experiences of children in the classrooms or 
early childhood programs, but this is impacting parents who 
can't get to work, can't get food on the table, can't be able 
to pay the bills, and this is affecting children and their 
stress levels as well. So it is going to take a whole system 
approach in order to really make a difference. We need to look 
at robust long-term public investments to make these kinds of 
things a reality.
    Chairman Clyburn. Well, thank you very much for that. I 
could get deeper into this, but I don't want Mr. Jordan to get 
too nervous. So the Chair now recognizes Mr. Jordan for five 
minutes.
    Mr. Jordan. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On September 29 of 
last year, the National School Board Association sent a letter 
to the Biden Administration asking them to implement, to use 
the Patriot Act against moms and dads showing up at school 
board meetings. Five days later, the Attorney General the 
United States sends a memorandum to the director at the FBI 
doing exactly what the School Boards Association asked the 
Biden Administration to do. Namely, he says in the memorandum, 
``I'm directing the FBI, working with United States Attorney 
General, to convene meetings and to set up an open, dedicated 
line of communication for threat reporting,'' to set up a 
snitch line on parents. Two weeks later, on October 20, because 
of a whistleblower--because of a whistleblower--we find out 
that the FBI then sent an email to agents around the country 
where they say, apply a threat tag to parents, put this label, 
this designation on parents. Here is what the whistleblower 
told us. He said, ``I believe this email is evidence that the 
FBI is proceeding to collect information on parents who protest 
at school board meetings.'' All that happens in 22 days.
    The first question I would ask is, I have never seen the 
Federal Government move that fast on anything, but all that 
happens in 22 days, which made me wonder about it because we 
learned that it actually didn't start with the School Board's 
letter. We know that the Department of Education and the Biden 
Administration went to the School Board, so it didn't come from 
the School Board to the government. The government went to the 
School Board to say, give us the pretext to do what we want to 
do, namely, go after moms and dads.
    In his opening statement, Ms. Lukas, the chairman of this 
committee said--this is a quote--``Give parents the support 
they need.'' I think what the Federal Government needs to do is 
quit treating parents as domestic terrorists. Maybe we should 
start there. So I think in your opening comments, Ms. Lukas, 
you said you had five children. Is that right?
    Ms. Lukas. Yes.
    Mr. Jordan. And your kids go to school, right?
    Ms. Lukas. Public school here----
    Mr. Jordan. All public school right here, right across----
    Ms. Lukas. Fairfax County.
    Mr. Jordan. Right across the river in Fairfax County, 
Virginia. You ever show up at school board meetings?
    Ms. Lukas. I have.
    Mr. Jordan. You been to a few of them?
    Ms. Lukas. Just one.
    Mr. Jordan. Did you speak out at it?
    Ms. Lukas. I certainly did.
    Mr. Jordan. Do you think there is a threat tag associated 
with your name now at the FBI?
    Ms. Lukas. I don't know. You guys would have to tell me who 
is listening. It is possible. It certainly is a concern. I know 
that that type of concern discourages a lot of parents from 
speaking out for just those reasons.
    Mr. Jordan. Yes, I think that is the goal, I think, is to 
try to intimidate parents from speaking out on COVID policies, 
on CRT, or, frankly, anything they care about, speaking out 
about their kids' education. I think it is an effort to 
intimidate and chill First Amendment free speech. Would you 
agree with that?
    Ms. Lukas. Very much.
    Mr. Jordan. Yes, and what did you speak out about? I am 
just curious. When you spoke out at your school board meeting, 
what did you speak out about?
    Ms. Lukas. About the masking policy. This was after 
Governor Youngkin had provided the executive order to give 
parents the right to unmask, and my kids were denied that right 
and suspended when I tried to exercise that right. And so I 
went to tell the school board that I thought it was an 
inappropriate and abusive policy.
    Mr. Jordan. What kind of response did you get from the 
school board?
    Ms. Lukas. Nothing. They yawned and kept the school mask 
policy on, and it took another act of law and some brave, 
finally, bipartisan push back from parents demanding that our 
kids be unmasked since everybody else in Virginia essentially 
had been unmasked for a long time and there was tremendous 
concern about what it was doing to kids.
    Mr. Jordan. Well, it seems to me that the science has been 
pretty clear on this with kids for a long time, as the ranking 
member, Mr. Scalise, pointed out earlier. Why do you think they 
continue to do it then?
    Ms. Lukas. You know, I do think that it became a bit of a 
political symbol and because mostly I think because they think 
they can. I do think that public school parents are a captive 
audience. It is very expensive to leave a role in a private 
school, and so they didn't have to. And I would just add 
quickly that, you know, I think that as we talk about the 
problems with childcare and the decline in services that 
happened during COVID-19, I think we should kind of imagine the 
counter factual that if our childcare centers had been run like 
our public K through 12 schools, like a build back better plan 
had been in place where the government was the primary funder 
of schools, just how more pronounced the problems would have 
been because all of those schools would have had the same 
incentives as our public schools did and would have denied in-
person service for as long as humanly possible, as they 
certainly did in Virginia.
    Mr. Jordan. Yes, I am just amazed at everything they told 
us that was wrong. I mean, I remember Joe Biden telling us when 
he ran for the job that he had a plan. I mean, it is obvious he 
didn't. He told us that he would never impose a vaccine 
mandate. He did, so much so that the Supreme Court had to say 
it was unconstitutional. They told us this virus didn't come 
from a lab. It was a gain-of-function and didn't involve our 
tax dollars. All three of those things look like they were 
false. They told us the vaccinated couldn't get it. They told 
us the vaccinated couldn't transmit it. They told us that there 
was no such thing as natural immunity. So there are eight lies, 
eight pieces of misinformation they told us. And then, forever, 
they told moms, who know a little bit more about their kids 
than the government does, they told them, you have to put a 
mask on your kid. I mean, it is just crazy.
    So we got a little discussion earlier about the politics. 
It was totally about the politics, and anyone with common sense 
can see that. And I just want to read one last time what--well, 
I guess I won't read it because we are cutting them off even 
though everyone else got to go over time.
    Chairman Clyburn. Your time----
    Mr. Jordan. Mr. Chairman, I yield back. I yield back.
    Chairman Clyburn. Well, if you want to yield to me for a 
question, I would be glad to go over because I would like to 
know whether or not free speech at a school board meeting 
allows one to say to a school board member, ``I know your 
address.'' ``I just want you to know I know your address.'' Is 
that a way to address school board policy?
    Mr. Jordan. No.
    Chairman Clyburn. Just asking.
    Mr. Jordan. No. What I am asking is when moms' and dads' 
names get a designation or a label associated with their name 
that the FBI keeps, call me crazy, but I think that has the 
potential to chill speech. And I would argue that is exactly 
what they were trying to do, as evidenced by the fact it was 
Secretary Cardenas who went to the School Board Association and 
asked them to send a letter that prompted this whole thing, 
that within 22 days got the FBI to send an email out that a 
whistleblower gave to us--thank goodness for this 
whistleblower--where this whistleblower said, this is not how 
it is supposed to operate. That is what I know, and now we have 
seen the impact it has had on parents across the country. That 
is my point. It has been about politics. Again, I would just 
read what Mr. Scalise----
    Chairman Clyburn. Every terrorist in the country that has 
ever been arrested, I think, had children.
    Mr. Jordan. Well, I appreciate that profound wisdom.
    Chairman Clyburn. With that, the chair yields to Mrs. 
Maloney for five minutes.
    [No response.]
    Chairman Clyburn. Mrs. Maloney?
    Mrs. Maloney. OK. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    The pandemic has made clear that affordable, quality 
childcare plays an essential role in promoting gender equity 
and economic opportunity. Ms. Forbes, I understand that you are 
a parent of a young child as well as an early childhood 
educator. You have dealt with the tradeoffs between furthering 
your career and obtaining quality childcare for your child. Can 
you discuss how the lack of affordable, available childcare has 
impacted your ability to work and develop your own career?
    Ms. Forbes. Absolutely. Thank you for your question, 
Congresswoman. It has been an ongoing challenge since I even 
had my older son in 2008, where just the question of how can I 
work for wages that are not much higher or perhaps the same as 
what I would pay out for the cost of childcare, and it is just 
a no-win situation. So particularly now, raising a young child 
in the pandemic with the additional stresses of that, it has 
just been an untenable situation of every day figuring out can 
I go to work tomorrow. Can I go to work next week? Can I 
continue to teach in a field that needs me desperately? We need 
every educator to show up to work and be there for other 
families, yet I don't know if I am going to be able to pay my 
care provider this week or next week. And so, as I mentioned in 
my opening statement, the expanded child tax credit was very 
helpful for me. It came in and it went right back out the door 
to pay for childcare costs, and without that, it is just an 
everyday struggle to know what to do next.
    Mrs. Maloney. Well, thank you. I think many parents have 
had the same experience as you, including myself. A Federal 
Reserve analysis showed that the onset of the pandemic caused 
many, many parents of young children to drop out of the labor 
force with longer-lasting effects for mothers than for fathers. 
Mothers of young children, in particular, saw a larger drop in 
labor force participation than women without children. 
Professor Stevenson, could these pandemic impacts on childcare 
availability have long-term ramifications for women's careers 
and gender equity in the work force?
    Ms. Stevenson. They absolutely can, and one of the things I 
highlighted in my testimony is we even need to look beyond the 
people who dropped out of work because some people hung onto 
some kind of work, but different work than they would be doing 
if they had access to better childcare. That kind of 
reallocation is continuing to go on and explains why we see a 
shortage of workers today, why we see what people are calling 
the great resignation or the great reallocation, because people 
are trying to figure out what is the spot for them in an 
economy in which they have had to make sacrifices due to 
childcare and with so few childcare spots available right now 
at such a high cost. I think it is going to be a long time for 
women and parents to get back.
    And I do just want to emphasize that, you know, I do think 
we need to realize this is impacting men's careers as well. It 
pains me to say it, that maybe people will pay more attention 
when I tell you that the fathers are getting hammered here, 
too, but the fathers are getting hammered. And overall, the 
U.S. economy really depends on parents having stable, reliable 
childcare for both mothers' and fathers' sake.
    Mrs. Maloney. Thank you. The American Rescue Plan that 
President Biden signed into law last year is already helping to 
address this crisis. My home state of New York used the 
American Rescue Plan funds to support a $2.3 billion investment 
in childcare early last year. Dr. Austin, your center published 
an analysis showing that New York City is one of the only areas 
where childcare employment was regained at a pre-pandemic 
level. How is the American Rescue Plan supporting New York's 
childcare recovery, and what lessons can be learned from New 
York's progress?
    Ms. Austin. Thank you for your question. New York City is 
very interesting. So when we look at New York returning to pre-
pandemic levels, I think there are a couple things that have 
happened there, the combination of relief funds getting into 
the community. And another really important point about New 
York City is that New York City has a larger share of publicly 
contracted childcare programs than we see in many places around 
the country. Our research has found that publicly contracted 
programs, like state preschool programs and Head Start 
programs, which temporarily closed and then did reopen as most 
childcare reopened, were more stable, that they were able to 
withstand the pandemic better, keep their programs open, pay 
the bills, and continue to pay their staff. So I think that is 
part of what is going on in New York City, and New York state 
as a whole is also beginning to see more recovery again with 
those relief dollars providing important relief to keep people 
working in those programs.
    Just the last thing I want to say there is, I think, one 
thing that is important to remember. As we see this return to 
pre-pandemic employment, which is important, it doesn't signal 
that the communities have totally recovered because, of course, 
we had incredible shortages of childcare before the pandemic 
hit. But this does show that the pandemic relief dollars and 
public contracts are helping programs move forward.
    Mrs. Maloney. Well, we definitely have to do more. My time 
has expired. I thank the panelists for investing in our 
childcare system. I yield back. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
    Chairman Clyburn. Thank you very much, Mrs. Maloney. As we 
go to Mrs. Miller-Meeks for questions, I am going to hand the 
chair to Dr. Foster so I can go vote.
    Mrs. Miller-Meeks. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I 
recently heard in this room, and I have heard this before, 
about the pandemic being politicized. And if the left didn't 
politicize the pandemic, can someone help explain to me the 
science of Democrat Governors lifting mask mandates for adults, 
but not for children in schools, or them posing with children 
in schools completely masked, even though they have low levels 
of transmission, almost infinitesimally low levels of illness 
or death, but yet the lawmaker being unmasked?
    [No response.]
    Mrs. Miller-Meeks. I didn't think so because there is no 
science that would support masking children with adults 
unmasked. Having said that, I would like to thank our witnesses 
for coming before us and sharing their testimony today.
    Mothers disproportionately shouldered the responsibility 
for children during remote or hybrid schooling and daycare 
disruptions. Many are unable to return to the workplace 
because, at any given moment, their child's class, school, or 
childcare facility could be shut down over a single positive 
COVID test with no illness. In January 2022, the male labor 
force participation rate was up to 70 percent while the female 
rate was just at 58 percent. This is likely related to the 
fact, in early January 2022, that there were nearly 7,500 
school closures due to the Omicron surge, even though we knew 
that there was little risk of illness. Ms. Lukas, how has the 
instability in school and daycare systems contributed to 
women's exodus and continued absence from the work force, and 
how can we get women who choose to work back to work?
    Ms. Lukas. Yes. You know, it is interesting because there 
has been a drop-off in both men and women's labor force 
participation and with children, but, actually, the labor force 
drop-off has been larger among parents of school-age kids, not 
in childcare in the 0 through 5, which really is the focus of 
this hearing, which, you know, we absolutely need to make it 
easier for more childcare centers to open so that people do 
have those options, reduce regulations, and the kind of forced 
closures and the really expensive, disruptive policies that 
have made running a daycare center so difficult. But, again, I 
think that when we look at the real problems with labor force 
participation, a lot of it is driven not by the lack of 
childcare. It is about the total undependability of our public 
school system, particularly in Democratic states where the 
schools remained closed for more than a year.
    Mrs. Miller-Meeks. According to emails obtained by the 
Americans for Public Trust, the American Federation of Unions 
was provided a pre-release copy of the CDC's updated school 
guidelines in February 2021. The pre-released version of the 
guidance, written prior to the influence of the AFT, stated 
that, ``Schools could provide in-person education regardless of 
the community transmission.'' And, in fact, in Iowa, Governor 
Reynolds opened schools to in-person learning in the fall of 
2020 without significant consequence of illness, or 
transmission, or super spreader events. Unfortunately, the CDC 
bowed to the pressure of the AFT, forcing thousands of schools 
to remain virtual. In fact, the AFT's exact suggested language 
appeared in the CDC's final guidance. Ms. Lukas, do you think 
it is fair that the teachers union had the ability to edit the 
guidance?
    Ms. Lukas. No. It is absolutely appalling, and I do think 
it is a clarifying moment in seeing one of the problems with 
how children have been treated as pawns during this pandemic, 
and really, really opened our eyes to the problems that are 
inherent in our public school system, which did not prioritize 
children, did not prioritize families during this pandemic, and 
why we need to change. We should not move in the direction of 
moving toward a public-funded and government-controlled daycare 
system. Instead, we should be thinking about how to liberalize 
and how to give parents more leverage over our public school 
systems, so they would be more responsive, care more about 
children's mental health and development, and not sacrifice 
them as they did during COVID.
    Mrs. Miller-Meeks. That is so well said. Democrats, 
unfortunately, chose the teachers union over teachers who 
wanted to return to school, parents, and, most importantly, 
children. Now we are seeing the effects of their harmful 
choices. America's children are broken. Do you agree, and 
shouldn't the CDC base its guidance off science?
    Ms. Lukas. Absolutely, and I do think it is interesting. We 
will be learning about this. In years, we will be having 
conversations about the lasting damage that has been done due 
to school closures, the increased mental health problems not 
just for little kids who are forced to mask and are still 
masking today in Head Start programs and in many daycare 
centers, but that have affected preteens, vulnerable. I know 
among my kids, I feel the worst for my middle-aged children. It 
is such a hard age, and I think this has made it just 
incredibly worse. So we will be seeing this for years to come, 
sadly.
    Mrs. Miller-Meeks. Yes, and a spiraling level of youth 
suicides. Thank you so much. Mr. Chair, I yield back my time.
    Mr. Foster. [Presiding.] Thank you, and at this point, I 
will yield to myself for five minutes of questioning.
    When you see our society coming under stress, our labor 
market coming under stress, one of the places that I look to 
for lessons are the Greatest Generation because we have been 
here before. There was a tremendous labor force shortfall 
during World War II, and one of the most fundamental and 
successful ways of plugging that labor force shortage was Rosie 
the Riveter. But Rosie the Riveter needed daycare, and so in 
response to that, the Federal Government stepped up. They 
passed something called the Lanham Act, which was the Federal 
Government setting up a bunch of federally funded daycare 
centers. And as a result of that natural experiment, we learned 
a lot about the long-term benefits of providing kids daycare. 
And so, Ms. Stevenson, could you say a little bit about this 
program and what the lessons learned have been?
    Ms. Stevenson. Yes. As you noted, it was popularly known as 
the Lanham Act. It was also called the Defense Housing and 
Community Facilities and Services Act of 1940 because it was 
attached to the defense industry. We were at war, and we needed 
to try to figure out how to get women into factories, and so 
the issue was, well, their kids are going to need childcare. So 
all families, regardless of income, were eligible for what was 
really high-quality childcare at a very, very low cost. A ton 
of research has been done into what did that do for the kids, 
what did that do for the families. And early research showed 
that the childcare strengthened family bonds, that the children 
enjoyed the childcare, and that the primary goal, increasing 
mother's employment, was achieved, and that children's long-
term outcomes were improved. We saw that these children went on 
to have higher high school graduation rates, higher education 
rates in general, and went on to earn more money as an adult.
    So to give you a little bit of math behind it, $100 in 
Lanham Act funding increased high school graduation rates by 
1.8 percentage points--that is a super cheap way to increase 
high school graduation by 1.8 percentage points--college 
graduation rates by 1.9 percentage points, and employment for 
these kids, when they grew up and were in their late 40's and 
early 50's, by .7 percentage points, and increased earnings by 
1.8 percent. So these are big, big effects, and I think that 
they speak to the broader point, which is we know high-quality 
early childhood education can have huge effects on people's 
earnings as adults. And so the idea of investing more in 
childcare, it is not just about parents and getting parents 
into the work force. The Lanham Act did that. It got the moms 
into the work force, but it did something even more important, 
and that is what I think childcare is really about, which is it 
got those kids to earn more as adults.
    I am going to end with just giving you one last fact, which 
is, a study that was done just around a decade or so ago found 
that a high-quality kindergarten teacher can generate $320,000 
in value by increasing the earnings of the kids that are in her 
classroom. You know, I don't know the estimates for high-
quality preschool or an early childhood educator, but it is 
reasonable to say that it would probably be around $100,000 or 
more. So there is a lot that these educators do, and yet, you 
know, we simply don't have the fundings to pay people 
appropriately and to give all kids access.
    Mr. Foster. And so the big increase in lifetime earnings 
will presumably also be associated with a big increase in the 
amount of tax revenue collected from these people. Well, you 
don't have to do the math to see that. It is clearly the case 
that the Federal taxpayer won with this investment, that it 
paid off, and it actually allowed us to lower tax rates over 
time because we made this early investment and won from that 
investment. Is there any way around that conclusion or is it 
clearly true?
    Ms. Stevenson. That is clearly true, and when we look at 
high-quality early childhood education, what we see is about $1 
in spending returns $9 to the taxpayer down the line. You got 
to wait for it because when you are investing in a two-year-
old, you might not get it all the way back until they are in 
their 50's. So it is a long wait, but these are net present 
value numbers, so that means that I am adjusting for that long 
wait and still telling you that the taxpayers get it back in 
the long run. You know, the research on parents is parents even 
know this and that parents would make these investments 
themselves if they could afford to, and, you know, in fact, 
that is why very high-income parents do make these investments. 
Other parents just are unable to make the choice, unable to 
afford making those high-quality investments in their kids, but 
the taxpayers can do it and they would get the money back.
    Mr. Foster. Thank you, and my time has expired. It is one 
of the large number of things that the Greatest Generation got 
right, and we haven't re-learned yet.
    And at this point, I will recognize Representative Raskin 
for five minutes.
    Mr. Raskin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I heard the ranking 
member announce the apparently breathtaking discovery that 
politicians take polls, and some even pay attention to what the 
majority believes. I would remind him of a President who 
responded neither to the science nor to the polls, and that is 
the President whose lethal recklessness in public health and 
whose sickening pro-Putin policies for four years, they did 
everything they could to obscure and explain away. Donald 
Trump's own COVID-19 advisor, Deborah Birx, has said that we 
lost unnecessarily hundreds of thousands of people because of 
the failures of Donald Trump, who never developed a plan to 
combat and defeat COVID-19, but rather trivialized it, denied 
it, waved it away, hocked fake miracle cures like 
hydroxychloroquine and injecting yourself with bleach, and did 
everything he could to prevent us from creating the social 
cohesion that we needed to defeat the disease that we finally 
have under President Biden.
    Here's a poll that Donald Trump and his party should 
consult: the vast majority of the American people reject 
fascist Vladimir Putin's war of imperial aggression against the 
democratic nation of Ukraine. The vast majority of Americans 
reject it. The vast majority of the world rejects it. But 
Trump, who has been trying to undermine NATO for many years 
now, calls his hero, Vladimir Putin, a genius. Mike Pompeo 
quickly called him savvy and professed his admiration. Fascist 
Trump follower, Nick Fuentes, called for a round of applause 
for Russia just a couple days before the invasion at a right-
wing rally in Florida, and the crowd then began to chant 
``Putin, Putin, Putin.'' And Marjorie Taylor Greene and Paul 
Gosar joined in this pro-Russian circus of extremism.
    So now that Joe Biden has finally turned the corner on 
COVID, created and forged the social consensus we need to 
defeat the disease, turn the corner, and brought the numbers 
down, now our colleagues, rather than acknowledge the great 
success and the breakthrough that we have under President Biden 
and never came close to under Trump when the disease was 
spinning out of control, now what do they do? Well, they do 
everything they can to distract us from the humiliating record 
of Trump on both COVID-19 and Vladimir Putin, two plagues that 
he helped to circulate throughout the land and throughout the 
world. And I am just shocked to see that they continue to come 
back here and summon up all of their counterfeit outrage 
against us after it was Donald Trump who spread the plague 
across the land just like he continues to help to try to spread 
the plague of right-wing authoritarianism around the world.
    Will one of our Republican colleagues--one of them--
denounce Donald Trump or dissociate themselves from his remarks 
praising Vladimir Putin and calling him a genius and 
cheerleading for right-wing authoritarianism on the march 
against the free people of Ukraine? I wish one of them would do 
that now.
    [No response.]
    Mr. Raskin. Well, hearing none, then I would like to ask a 
question beginning with Ms. Forbes. My question for you is 
about the American Rescue Plan's temporary expansion of the 
child and dependent care tax credit, which will allow families 
to at least offset a substantial portion of their childcare 
costs this tax filing season. The expansion allows low-and 
middle-income families to get refundable credits of up to 
$4,000 for families with one child and up to 8,000 for families 
with two or more children. And actually, let me ask Professor 
Stevenson first: how might the expanded child and dependent 
care tax credit affect parents' ability to participate 
effectively in the labor market?
    Ms. Stevenson. Thank you. I think that tax credit is just 
incredibly important to help offset the cost of going to work. 
The bottom line is some parents cannot afford to work. I mean, 
that sounds like a crazy sentence to say, ``I can't afford to 
work,'' but, actually, you heard Ms. Forbes describe her exact 
predicament of not being able to afford to work. And so when we 
look at these kind of tax credits that are primarily meant to 
offset the cost of childcare so the parents can work, I think 
that they are incredibly important. Right now, when childcare 
costs more than it has in the past, that tax credit really, I 
think, was essential for helping to get parents back into the 
labor force. And I will just end by saying women have come back 
at a faster pace than men to jobs, so women want to come back 
to work. If we can help them when we give them these kind of 
tax credits, we are going to succeed in getting them back into 
the labor force.
    Mr. Raskin. Thank you. I yield back, Mr. Chairman.
    Chairman Clyburn. [Presiding.] Thank you very much, Mr. 
Raskin.
    The chair now recognizes Mr. Krishnamoorthi for five 
minutes.
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi. Thank you so much, Chair Clyburn. Can 
the staff put up the diagram for me? Well, they may not be able 
to. Oh, there it is.
    Ms. Lukas, I have a few questions about a book that you 
authored in 2006 called, The Politically Incorrect Guide to 
Women, Sex, and Feminism. You wrote that book in 2006, right?
    Ms. Lukas. Yep.
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi. And as you can see from this rather 
provocative cover, there are some bullet points that are very 
interesting on this particular page. Let me just start with the 
bottom bullet point. It says--and you wrote this, correct--
``Most women want a husband and a strong family, but 
independent feminists pine for a sugar daddy in Uncle Sam,'' 
correct?
    Ms. Lukas. Yes. Yes, I did write that.
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi. And then you also wrote the following. 
You said, ``Why the happiest women spend more time with their 
families and less time at work,'' and then in parens you said, 
``Because you can't outsource parenting.'' You wrote that, 
correct?
    Ms. Lukas. Yes, sir.
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi. Now, let me just ask Ms. Forbes. You 
know, Ms. Forbes, do you consider yourself somebody who is 
fulfilled in your job, and that is why you are kind of going to 
work and having to get childcare at the same time?
    Ms. Forbes. Thank you for your question. I am a very 
passionate person about what I do. I love working. I love my 
job as an early educator, and I am growing a business as an 
early education consultant. And it is very challenging for me 
to not have that outlet for my intelligence and my passion and 
creativity.
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi. Yes. I think, you know, it looks like 
Ms. Lukas may not think you are as happy as you could be. In 
fact, in the first bullet point, I will just read what you 
said. You said, ``Careers can be baby deniers. Women can't 
postpone childbearing without serious consequences.'' That is 
your first bullet point, right, Ms. Lukas?
    Ms. Lukas. Yes, sir. I think there is a lack of----
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi. You have spent a career at the 
organization that you are at. In fact, in 2006, you were the 
vice president there, and today you are the president of that 
same organization. You have 15 years there, which is a good, 
successful career there, right?
    Ms. Lukas. Yes, sir.
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi. And you have at least five children. 
Isn't that right?
    Ms. Lukas. I have five children, yes. Thank you.
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi. And it looks like your career did not 
prevent you from raising children very successfully. 
Congratulations.
    Ms. Lukas. Thanks.
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi. It looks like for other people, 
however, it is very difficult for them to potentially raise 
children----
    Ms. Lukas. No, sir, there is a lot of----
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi [continuing]. Having a fulfilling 
career. Let me ask Betsey Stevenson a question here because Ms. 
Lukas has been highly, highly critical of institutionalized 
daycare. In fact, she considers that to be a very negative 
influence on children and their futures, but I am hearing a 
totally different story from Betsey Stevenson based on the 
actual data. Ms. Stevenson, do you agree with the conclusion 
that institutionalized childcare that would be provided by 
``Uncle Sam,'' according to Ms. Lukas, would have a negative 
impact on children?
    Ms. Stevenson. You know, I think that the American public 
school system, K through 12, has been an enormous success. And, 
in fact, you know, to go back to the idea of what did we learn 
from the Greatest Generation, Americans built high schools when 
no other country in the world was, and it is actually what 
fueled our growth in the last century. I think what will fuel 
our growth in this century is actually expanding education down 
to our youngest citizens. And the evidence suggests that 
center-based care that is curriculum based, that is 
developmentally appropriate, does generate massive benefits for 
children because the science tells us when children develop.
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi. Let me interrupt for one second. Ms. 
Lukas also said on page 197 of her book, ``Families who want to 
keep a parent home with their children shouldn't have to pay 
taxes to support daycare for other people's children.'' How do 
you respond to that, Ms. Stevenson?
    Ms. Stevenson. Well, first of all, those children are 
allowing parents to go to work, and the parents are paying 
taxes on that income that they are earning while their kids are 
in childcare. That childcare is also allowing those kids to 
earn more as adults, and they are going to pay taxes on that. 
Actually, the bigger problem is that when people stay home and 
provide care for their children, they are providing a valuable 
service for their family, and unlike traded services, they are 
not actually taxed on those goods that they are creating and 
the value that they are providing for their family.
    Mr. Krishnamoorthi. Thank you so much. I yield back.
    Chairman Clyburn. I thank the gentleman for yielding back. 
I think that no other Republicans are going to return to the 
hearing. In the interest of time, the Chair is going to yield 
for 2.5 minutes for any response that Ms. Lukas would like to 
make.
    Ms. Lukas. Yes. Thank you so much, Chairman. I really 
appreciate that because I do want to correct the record on a 
little bit of how my thoughts were characterized, particularly 
about working parents and some of the data that was in the book 
that I wrote 15 years ago now that I was trying to correct. I 
particularly went through and looked at some of the women's 
studies programs and some of the information that was being 
given and found that there was a tremendous lack of coverage of 
things like infertility. And there has been a lot of 
information showing that young women tend not to recognize the 
amount of difficulty that women often have in trying to get 
pregnant after the age of 35, and I think that is something 
that women should be aware of. One in three women suffer from 
infertility, and, you know, obviously not everyone wants a 
child, and you can have a tremendously fulfilling life without 
a child. But I hate to think of the heartbreak that many people 
experience when they aren't aware of the problems associated 
with infertility.
    And similarly, I think there have been a lot of women--and 
this is looking at polling information--as we talked about, 
polling information can be very helpful and that there are a 
lot of women who do end up feeling a sense of regret when they 
haven't had time to spend at home with their children. I 
obviously think that daycare is incredibly important. I have 
used daycare at different times during my 16, 17 years as a mom 
now, but I do think that parents should have a recognition that 
sometimes it is better to stay at home and there is value in 
staying at home.
    And just the final point I will make is I do think we 
should be cautious. You can find studies that show that high-
quality childcare is associated with positive life outcomes, 
but there are also a lot that show the opposite. I am sure 
everyone, all the scholars here have seen this very recent 
program, finding from Tennessee. This was meant to be a high-
quality childcare program, preschool program, and they found 
negative effects in third grade and then again in sixth grade, 
both in terms of education and in terms of discipline and 
mental health. So we need to be cautious. This doesn't mean 
that it can't work, but it does mean that we don't know 
everything, and we should have a little humility in knowing 
that we don't know exactly what a quality daycare is or what a 
quality provider is, which is why we need to empower parents 
and not just government. Thank you.
    Chairman Clyburn. I thank the witness for her statement. 
Now, I think the ranking member has informed me that he will 
not be returning to this hearing, so the chair recognizes 
himself for a closing statement.
    I want to thank all of the witnesses for testifying before 
the select subcommittee today. We appreciate your insight, your 
expertise, and, most importantly, your dedication to the well-
being of children and families. In light of your testimony, I 
want to make it clear to America's families and caregivers of 
young children that their sacrifice, determination, and hard 
work, especially in the face of the challenges presented by the 
pandemic, are recognized and valued. We must continue to 
dedicate the necessary resources to ensure that childcare is 
affordable, caregivers are well paid, and that any parent who 
wants to rejoin the labor force is able to access the childcare 
necessary to do so. I applaud the Biden-Harris Administration 
for its leadership in responding to these challenges and 
prioritizing children, families, and caregivers. They 
recognize, as I do, that overcoming the challenges discussed 
today is essential to both our immediate economic recovery from 
the pandemic and this country's long-term prosperity.
    With that and without objection, all members will have five 
legislative days within which to submit additional written 
questions for the witnesses to the chair, which will be 
forwarded to the witnesses for their response.
    Chairman Clyburn. This hearing is adjourned.
    [Whereupon, 3:53 p.m., the select subcommittee was 
adjourned.]

                                 [all]
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 78 (Tuesday, May 10, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2407-S2412]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     WOMEN'S HEALTH PROTECTION ACT

  Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I rise to express the urgent need to 
pass the Women's Health Protection Act and put an end to the constant 
attacks that have chipped away at women's constitutional rights in this 
country. Now more than ever, it is vital to codify reproductive rights 
and protect other hard-won civil rights as they face renewed threats.
  Last week, POLITICO published Supreme Court Associate Justice Alito's

[[Page S2408]]

draft opinion in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, which, while not 
final, would strike down Roe v. Wade. This would have an immediate and 
devastating consequence for the health and well-being of tens of 
millions of women of reproductive age across the Nation. Women in low-
income families who could not overcome the financial and logical 
barriers to travel to States with abortion access will suffer the most, 
increasing existing health disparities.
  While this draft opinion is a reminder of what is at stake, we have 
seen the erosion of reproductive rights for decades. Despite the clear 
constitutional rights the Supreme Court established almost 50 years ago 
in the landmark Roe v. Wade decision, each year, legislatures across 
the country have passed harmful abortion restrictions in an effort to 
impede a woman's fundamental right to make the best informed healthcare 
decisions for herself and her family. This goes against what I believe 
to be one of the fundamental responsibilities of the Court, which is to 
expand rights, not restrict them.
  Implementing the Bill of Rights, we have seen the Federal courts over 
a period of time protect Americans against the abuse of power, 
including the power exercised by our government. Should this opinion go 
into effect, this would be the first time in memory that the Court 
would act to take away the constitutional rights of Americans. It would 
also be the first time in our country's history when women now would 
have fewer rights than their mothers.
  The reasoning used in this draft decision could also be used to 
undermine other dearly held civil rights in the future. Justice Alito's 
leaked draft opinion laid out a roadmap to overturn other landmark 
decisions that expanded rights, including Obergefell v. Hodges, which 
affirmed marriage equality.
  Justices Gorsuch, Kavanaugh, and Barrett all testified under oath 
before the Senate Judiciary Committee that Supreme Court precedents 
should stand--a bedrock principle of jurisprudence known as stare 
decisis--but they clearly arrived with an agenda to overturn Roe, and 
now, they are making that a reality.
  Senate Republicans and former President Donald Trump bear 
responsibility for nominating and confirming Justices far outside of 
the legal mainstream and damaging our confirmation process and the 
public's faith in the Supreme Court as an impartial arbiter of our 
Nation's laws.
  Senate Republicans deliberately stole the seat that President Barack 
Obama nominated Merrick Garland to fill, and they delayed even having a 
hearing for 1 year, effectively shrinking the size of the Supreme 
Court. Senate Republicans then turned around and rushed the 
confirmation of Justice Amy Coney Barrett after the death of Justice 
Ruth Bader Ginsburg, even though early voting had already begun in the 
2020 Presidential elections.
  Overturning Roe goes against public opinion. A recent poll of the 
Washington Post-ABC showed that 70 percent of Americans believe that 
the Court should uphold Roe and that decisions regarding abortion 
should be left to a woman and her doctor.
  Now more than ever, it is essential for the Senate to pass the 
Women's Health Protection Act, of which I am proud to be a cosponsor. 
The legislation would protect the right to abortion free from medically 
unnecessary restrictions and create a statutory right for providers to 
provide and patients to receive care. This would codify Roe v. Wade and 
prevent States from continuing to enact restrictions on reproductive 
freedoms.
  Despite the opinion just being a draft and abortion still being a 
constitutional right, States are already seizing on the momentum of 
this draft opinion and moving to limit a woman's constitutional right. 
Since the leak of this draft opinion, legislatures around the country 
are rushing to criminalize abortion and outlaw contraception.
  Just last week, the Louisiana State Legislature advanced a bill that 
would classify abortion as homicide. This adds to the over half of our 
States that have already passed laws to restrict and ban abortion 
access. There are more than one dozen States with anti-abortion laws 
set to take effect immediately if the Supreme Court strikes down Roe v. 
Wade.
  The Republican leader, Mr. McConnell, stated:

       If the leaked opinion became the final opinion, legislative 
     bodies--not only at the state level but at the federal 
     level--certainly could legislate in that area.

  Thanks to five unelected, activist Justices on the Supreme Court, 
women are facing the prospect of a Federal, nationwide ban on abortion 
services. We go back to those days where abortions were performed 
illegally in back alleys. We can't let that happen in this country.
  While many States, including my home State of Maryland, have acted to 
expand abortion care, we cannot rely on a patchwork of State laws to 
protect a basic constitutional right. The right to choose is 
fundamental and a decision that a woman should make in consultation 
with a doctor or other healthcare provider free of political 
interference from Federal, State, or local government.
  I urge President Biden and the Department of Health and Human 
Services, the Department of Justice, and other Federal Agencies to use 
their power and to act swiftly to safeguard the reproductive rights of 
Americans.
  There is no denying that this is a bleak moment. We know the battle 
for reproductive rights has been an ongoing struggle with previous 
setbacks. We saw this just a few months ago following the anti-choice, 
pro-vigilante law that the Texas Legislature passed which threatens 
providers with jail time and fines for administering what is still 
federally and constitutionally protected medical care for women.
  We cannot wait any longer. We must do everything in our power to 
ensure access to reproductive services now. Therefore, I urge my 
colleagues to pass the Women's Health Protection Act, and we will have 
a chance to do that starting tomorrow.
  Throughout my time in Congress, I have been a steadfast supporter of 
reproductive rights, and this will not change. Regardless of the 
outcome of tomorrow's vote or the Supreme Court's final decision, I 
will continue to do everything within my power to ensure that women can 
have access to the care they need.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Michigan.
  Mr. PETERS. Madam President, I also rise to speak about the need to 
pass the Women's Health Protection Act. Certainly, the Senator from 
Maryland outlined a very strong argument as to why this fundamental 
protection, this fundamental right, needs to be protected.
  We know right now that we may see the Supreme Court come out with a 
decision to basically end Roe v. Wade and, in the process, end a 
fundamental right that women in this country have had available to them 
for 50 years.
  We can hear all the arguments--and my colleagues will present an 
awful lot of arguments tonight and tomorrow--as to why we need to pass 
this act, but for me, this is personal, a personal experience that I 
had, and it is an experience that, unfortunately, many, many families 
have had. The fact is, as I have shared this story, I have been really 
overwhelmed by people reaching out to me and saying that they, too, 
have a very similar story and how my talking about it brought out their 
willingness to share their experience as well. In addition to that, 
they understand how important it is that we protect Roe v. Wade and we 
protect the right for women to make critical decisions for themselves, 
along with their doctor, and not have politics interfere with those 
decisions.
  My story involves my first wife. When we were married, she was 
pregnant with a child whom we very much wanted. We were looking forward 
to having a second child. In the fourth month, towards the end of the 
fourth month, her water broke--clearly a very dangerous situation.
  She went to go see her physician. Her physician examined her and 
said: With this water breaking, the amniotic fluid has now left the 
uterus. There is no way a baby can survive in this situation.
  They examined her. There was a very faint heartbeat.
  He said: There is a faint heartbeat here, but there is no way this 
baby can survive.
  He said: What I think will happen is you are going to have a 
miscarriage. So

[[Page S2409]]

go home tonight, and you will have a miscarriage, and come in and see 
me tomorrow.
  Well, you can imagine the anguish, the horrible evening, and the 
despair that she was in and I was in. It was a long, long night.
  The next morning, nothing happened. She went back to the physician--
we went back to the physician. He examined her again and said: I am 
really surprised. I don't know why you didn't miscarry because it is 
clear that there is no way this baby can survive in this situation. The 
amniotic fluid is gone; the cushion is gone.
  He said: I don't think I can do anything because there is still a 
faint heartbeat here. I don't know why there is still a faint 
heartbeat. So go home again tonight. I think tonight is going to be the 
night you have a miscarriage.
  We went back again. It didn't happen--another horrible night--
horrible. The mental anguish is intense, and families who have gone 
through this know exactly what I am talking about.

  We went the next day, and, again, he examined her. He said: I can't 
understand this, but this is going on. I am really worried that there 
is going to be an infection here. There isn't the protection there. You 
could go into septic shock. Your health is definitely endangered here. 
The baby can't survive. Without the amniotic fluid, the cushion, the 
baby could lose its limbs.
  There were horrible, horrible, nightmarish kinds of thoughts in our 
minds.
  He said: I am going to go to the hospital, and I am going to say, 
even though there is a faint heartbeat, this is a medical necessity, 
that we have to do a D&C abortion here to protect your health and 
potentially your life if we don't take care of this. So I will go to 
the hospital. Go home, and I will call you and let you know when I can 
bring you in.
  Well, he called. I will never forget the voicemail that was left. He 
said: I am really sorry to say this. I went to the hospital board. I 
explained the medical necessity here, what you are going through, how 
we have to take care of this because it could clearly be a serious 
situation if you go into septic shock.
  And the board said: No. As long as there is a faint heartbeat, you 
can't perform the procedure.
  Then he said: There is no reason for this decision from the hospital 
board. It is not based on sound medicine. It is not based on medical 
practice. It is not based on what is best for your health. This is 
based on politics. Plain and simple, this is politics.
  He goes: I am ashamed that this happened, and I am embarrassed I have 
to call you and tell you I can't do it because the hospital will not 
grant me privileges to do it.
  He said: My advice to you is find a doctor now, immediately, that can 
take care of this procedure.
  Well, you can imagine how scary that is, how frightening that is; and 
who do we call in that situation? We were fortunate in the fact that we 
had a friend who was a hospital administrator at another hospital. He 
got us in to see the gynecologist, OB-GYN at the hospital to examine 
her. We went there.
  He examined her and said: Oh, my gosh, I have to do this procedure 
now. There is no more time. This is getting incredibly dangerous. We 
have to do the D&C abortion.
  He said: You are about to go--the infection is starting. It is going 
to get worse. If I don't do this quickly, you are going to lose your 
uterus. If we don't deal with it quickly, you could very well lose your 
life with the infection that could occur here.
  He immediately performed the procedure.
  Just think of that. One, if we didn't have the opportunity to see 
another doctor who was able to perform it and understood the severity 
of it, my wife at the time, former wife, could have easily lost a 
uterus, could have had significant health impacts, and could have lost 
her life.
  It just kept ringing in my mind what that doctor said: This is about 
politics. This is not about good medical practice. This is not about 
caring about someone's health and caring about their life; it was about 
politics. And that is why we have to protect Roe v. Wade.
  We have to protect the right for women to control their bodies, to 
control their reproductive health. It cannot be a decision made by 
politicians here in this body or other places. This is a real situation 
that families face. As I mentioned, there was an outpouring of folks 
who have come to me who had similar situations.
  I think about Michigan right now. Michigan has a law on the books 
that was written in 1931 that says all abortion is prohibited in our 
State. It doesn't matter whether or not it involves the health of the 
mother, it doesn't matter if it is the life of the mother, it doesn't 
matter if a woman is the victim of rape or incest--it is just simply 
not allowed. I think that is unconscionable. That is what will happen. 
It is a real-life situation that could happen if the Court decides to 
go forward and reverse Roe v. Wade. Situations like what my former wife 
went through and families all across America would not be able to have 
that kind of option.
  If you think about the no exception for rape or incest, you will have 
a 17-year-old girl in Michigan who is raped. She will have no options. 
I know a majority of people in the United States believe that is 
unacceptable. I know a majority of people in the United States believe 
that women have the right to make these most personal, these most 
intimate decisions themselves, with the advice of their physician or 
whoever else that they want to consult.
  This is not about politics. This is not about the opinions of folks 
who think that they know better. Let's preserve the right of women to 
do what they think is best.
  That is why we have to pass the Women's Health Protection Act and why 
I would urge all my colleagues to search their heart and listen to the 
stories that people will tell them and understand that the right thing 
to do is to protect reproductive freedoms and rights in America.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Maryland.
  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam President, first, I want to thank my friend and 
colleague, the Senator from Michigan, for coming to the floor to share 
his own powerful and personal story and the stories of his constituents 
about why so many of us are here on the Senate floor this evening, and 
it is because 8 days ago, our country received a terrible wake-up call. 
A leaked draft opinion from the Supreme Court of the United States 
indicated that a majority of five Justices may be on the verge of 
overturning the constitutional protections of reproductive freedom set 
forth in Roe v. Wade.
  We don't know if this draft opinion will be the final decision, but 
we do know there is a very high chance that the Supreme Court of the 
United States will soon blow up 50 years of precedent and strip women 
of their constitutional right to make choices about their own body and 
their own self-determination.
  And while the content of this opinion is shocking, it is not totally 
surprising. This is the premeditated outcome of years--years--of 
plotting and planning by the rightwing legal movement and the 
Republican Party.
  Candidate Donald Trump promised the Nation he would handpick Justices 
who would overturn Roe v. Wade. On the campaign trail, he even claimed 
that Roe would be overturned ``immediately'' once he assumed office. 
And he stated on national television that women who receive abortions 
should be punished. Leader McConnell and Senate Republicans made up 
their own rules and then broke their own rules in order to play their 
part in this scheme.
  First, Senate Republicans refused to even hold a hearing on President 
Obama's Supreme Court nominee, Merrick Garland, on the grounds that it 
was a Presidential election year.
  Four years later, Senate Republicans rushed through one of President 
Trump's own Supreme Court nominees just weeks before the 2020 election.
  And in between, Senate Republicans carved out an exception to the 
Senate filibuster rule so they could push through all three of Trump's 
anti-choice Supreme Court picks: Neil Gorsuch, Brett Kavanaugh, and Amy 
Coney Barrett.
  Each of these nominees raised their right hand before the Senate 
Judiciary Committee and swore under oath that they respected the weight 
of judicial precedent. In fact, when Brett Kavanaugh was asked about 
Roe v.

[[Page S2410]]

Wade, he pointed to Planned Parenthood v. Casey, which affirmed the 
core holding in Roe establishing a constitutional right to abortion, 
and he called the decision in Casey ``precedent on precedent,'' a 
double precedent.
  But let's be very clear, this draft opinion has no respect for 
judicial precedent. If the draft holds, all three of President Trump's 
nominees to the Supreme Court, along with some others already on the 
Bench, will have deliberately deceived and defrauded the American 
public.
  Rightwing ideologues set out to stack the Court with Justices ready 
and willing to overturn Roe v. Wade.
  Now, this rightwing establishment, this machinery, is on the verge of 
achieving their goal, even though their win will be a horrible loss for 
the reputation of the Supreme Court, a horrible loss for the integrity 
of our Constitution, and most of all, a horrible loss for the American 
people.
  More than half of the women and girls of reproductive age in our 
country live in States that would likely ban or severely restrict 
abortion if the Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade.
  Thirteen States have so-called trigger laws that will kick into 
effect automatically the day Roe is overturned. Nine States have passed 
laws that were struck down in the past because they violated the 
protections of Roe, but those laws could come back if Roe v. Wade is 
overturned.
  Many of these laws we are talking about are extreme. One trigger law 
in Kentucky would ban all abortions at any point in pregnancy, with no 
exceptions for rape, no exceptions for incest, or a situation in which 
a child could be born with a fatal birth defect.

  Another trigger law in Idaho would make providing an abortion at any 
point in pregnancy and under almost any circumstances a felony crime 
punishable by 5 years in prison. A Texas law that is on the books right 
now would put doctors in jail or fine them up to $10,000 for 
prescribing pills for medication abortions through telehealth or the 
mail for women who are more than 7 weeks pregnant.
  And a law that has been on the books since 1931 in Michigan would 
snap back into effect, making nearly all abortions at any point in 
pregnancy a felony. And women who undergo medication abortions would be 
made felons, even in the case of rape and incest.
  Just last week, State legislators in the Louisiana House advanced a 
bill through committee that would allow women who obtain abortions at 
any time in pregnancy to be prosecuted for murder--for murder.
  Experts say that this extreme law could also be used to restrict 
emergency contraception and in vitro fertilization, which is a critical 
process that helps customers with infertility build their families.
  Like many of our colleagues, I have been hearing from my 
constituents, my constituents in the State of Maryland, who have 
learned just how dangerous this situation is for women and families 
across the country. One constituent named Connie shared her story of 
taking emergency contraception after she was attacked and raped by a 
stranger at the age of 18.
  She told me about the importance of being able to make that choice 
about her body and her future instead of potentially becoming pregnant 
because of a rape. Today, Connie is a social worker, a therapist, and 
has a wonderful son.
  I have received other testimonials from constituents across the State 
of Maryland who have shared their stories and expressed their deep 
concern and fear about the Court striking down Roe v. Wade.
  If Roe was overturned, women living in States where safe and legal 
abortion is banned will have to travel away from their homes, away from 
their communities, away from their families simply to exercise control 
over their own bodies.
  Those who lack the money or the time will either be forced to carry 
an unwanted pregnancy to term or find somebody performing abortions in 
the shadows in their States, a throwback to the dangerous back-alley 
abortions.
  In 1965, 8 years before the Roe v. Wade decision, illegal abortion 
accounted for 17 percent--17 percent--of all deaths attributed to 
pregnancy and childbirth. That past could soon be our present.
  So, you see, this Supreme Court decision doesn't just turn back the 
clock on precedent, it turns back the clock on public health as it 
strips women of their reproductive freedoms.
  And in a world where Roe has been overturned, as you drive across our 
great country, your rights will change from State to State as you cross 
each State border. That is the result of taking away a constitutional 
right, and that is why polling shows the great majority of the American 
people do not want the Supreme Court to take away the rights under Roe 
v. Wade.
  Now, I am proud to represent a State that has codified a woman's 
right to reproductive choice. In fact, during my very first campaign 
for public office, the right to reproductive choice was the defining 
issue in my election to the Maryland General Assembly. It was another 
time when there was great fear that a Supreme Court might overturn Roe 
v. Wade.
  And so I ran on the pro-choice ticket, and after I was sworn in, in a 
matter of months, my colleagues and I passed a bill in 1991 codifying 
Roe v. Wade as a matter of Maryland State law.
  But here is the thing, laws like the one we have in Maryland, laws 
like the one we passed back in 1991, will be on the chopping block if 
this decades-long, rightwing project continues to go according to plan 
because the Republicans' ultimate objective isn't just to overturn Roe 
v. Wade; it is to enact a Federal law passed in this Senate and in the 
House banning abortion nationwide.
  Last week, Leader McConnell acknowledged that a national ban on 
abortion was a real possibility during an interview with USA TODAY. 
That should sound alarm bells all over America.
  This has been a two-step process. Step No. 1, strike down the 
constitutional protections of Roe v. Wade that prohibit elected 
officials, whether it is State legislatures or in Congress, from 
enacting laws that prohibit or restrict unnecessarily the right to 
choose. That is step No. 1. It seems we are on the verge of that 
happening.
  Once you clear the way, step No. 2, enact a Federal law in Congress 
banning abortion everywhere in the country, and we have seen exactly 
how extreme those laws can be from the State examples I cited earlier. 
That could happen here if this Republican, rightwing project sees its 
logical end; that Federal law would supersede Maryland's law. If 
Congress passed that law and it was enacted, State laws like those in 
Maryland protecting the right to choose in Maryland would be knocked 
off the books. That is true of other State laws, statutes, that protect 
a woman's right to choose.
  No woman in America would be safe to obtain a safe and legal abortion 
if such a national law were enacted.
  Now, everyone should also understand another huge danger posed by the 
draft. Its flawed logic not only would dismantle the right to an 
abortion, it could also be used to strip away other rights protected by 
the Constitution.
  I have read Justice Alito's draft opinion. I have read all 98 pages 
of it.
  In this opinion, Justice Alito tries to distinguish this case on 
abortion from other cases involving other individual rights. Alito 
claims that this case is special because it involves abortion and the 
State's interest in protecting life, while other cases do not. Well, 
that is obvious on its face, but it misses the bigger danger in Alito's 
opinion.
  Because it doesn't change the fact that Justice Alito's reasoning for 
dismantling the right to obtain an abortion can be used to dismantle 
many other rights that we currently take for granted as well. Justice 
Alito claims that, even as you look at the entire Constitution, you 
cannot find a right to choose for women; that you cannot derive that 
from the Constitution.
  In fact, on page 5 of the draft opinion, Justice Alito writes:

       The Constitution makes no reference to abortion, and no 
     such right is implicitly protected by any constitutional 
     provision.

  And if we follow Justice Alito's flawed logic, the same could be said 
of a host of other rights that are not specifically named in the 
Constitution. The Constitution doesn't have the word ``contraception'' 
in it. The Constitution doesn't talk about consenting adults engaged in 
sexual relations.

[[Page S2411]]

  Look, this is the thing: Over time, the Supreme Court has recognized 
components of liberty through a close analysis of the Bill of Rights 
and the 14th Amendment, and that includes the right to use 
contraception, the right of consenting adults to have sexual relations 
with who they choose, and the right to marry who you love.
  These are rights the American people don't want elected officials to 
take away, whether they are State legislatures or Members of the Senate 
or the House. But they are all at peril too if the logic of Alito's 
reasoning is played out. And the terrible irony--the terrible irony--
here is those who most claim to oppose government regulations of any 
kind are now the ones rushing to regulate the most intimate, personal, 
and private aspects of American life. They say they don't want 
government having any role in their life--get out of my way--except for 
when it comes to them taking away this right and planning to pass laws 
that would ban abortion nationally, and as I said, open the door to 
going after other liberties as well.
  So those are the stakes that we are facing as we gather here this 
evening in anticipation of tomorrow's vote. And that is why we are 
taking this vote tomorrow. That is why we need to pass the Women's 
Health Protection Act, but even if we fall short this time, having a 
vote now is important. It is important to the country. Democracy 
requires accountability, and it is important that the American people 
know where each of the Senators stands on this issue. It is a 
fundamental question.
  So as we move into November toward the midterm elections, the 
American people will be watching closely how Members of this body vote 
on this fundamental constitutional question. And they will look to see 
who voted to strip away constitutional rights and who rose to protect 
them. And I believe that the majority of this country--the overwhelming 
majority of this country--wants to stand up to protect fundamental 
liberties in the Constitution of the United States.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Connecticut.
  Mr. MURPHY. Madam President, I will probably get in trouble with 
somebody for saying this, but the question of when life begins, the 
deeper question of what defines life, which biological entities are 
alive or possess independent existence versus which biological entities 
are simply part of something else that is alive--man, those are really 
hard questions.
  I heard my colleague Senator Daines on the floor earlier tonight 
talking passionately about his belief that life begins at conception 
and that humans have an obligation to defend a day-old fetus equally to 
our obligation to defend the life of someone who has been born.
  Now, I disagree. I believe that life begins at birth. I believe that 
our legal obligation towards a born human is different than our legal 
obligation toward an unborn fetus. But on that narrow question of when 
life begins, I don't cast any particular judgment on Senator Daines for 
believing what he believes. His belief system is shared by millions of 
Americans--not the majority of Americans, but a significant share.
  This disagreement that he and I have over when legally protected life 
begins, though, is as significant and as important a disagreement as 
exists--right--because it is about the most foundational questions in 
human existence: What is life? Who decides whether a woman bears a 
child? Who has control over that woman's body? Who has control over the 
most sacred and critical function of a human being, the act of giving 
birth? It just doesn't get any more important than that set of 
questions.
  And given this fundamental disagreement, given the weightiness of 
these questions, given the large number of Americans who sit on either 
side of these questions, I come to one simple conclusion: No 
government, no group of politicians, should make this decision for 
anyone else. This decision about whether to abort a pregnancy, so 
morally complicated, so socially divisive, should and must be left to 
individuals--in this case, to women--to decide.

  Over the course of history, millions have died in fights over another 
weighty moral issue--the question of whether God exists, and if a God 
exists, exactly what form that being takes and what it requires of 
humans. Disputes over religion have eradicated entire civilizations.
  What does this have to do with Roe v. Wade?
  Well, our Founding Fathers decided that there were some topics that 
were so personal, so subject to disagreement and controversy, that 
government should just be barred from registering judgment.
  That is part of the reason why our civilization has not been plagued 
by wars between religious groups--a reality that continues to paralyze 
societies to this day in other parts of the world--because we keep 
government out of the question of which God is the right God. That is 
up to every American to decide for themselves, even though many 
Americans believe that the consequence of observing or following the 
wrong God is serious--eternal damnation, for some. The stakes are huge 
when it comes to religion, but government sits on the sidelines.
  To me, that is an imperfect but instructive corollary to the debate 
over choice and abortion. The decision about whether to have an 
abortion is so personal, and the lack of consensus in the country on 
the question is so unavoidable, as to make government intervention just 
as illegitimate as it would be if government tried to dictate to 
someone which religion they should follow.
  Now, that is not the exact route that the Supreme Court traveled to 
get to the Roe decision, but it helps me understand why, from 1973 
until today, the decision about whether or not to have an abortion has 
been a constitutional right of the individual, not the constitutional 
right of the government to decide.
  Frankly, it has always been really hard for me to square how 
Republicans, who so readily evangelize about small government, about 
the importance of putting families and their decision-making processes 
first, about the evil of public sector overreach, are so enthusiastic 
about the government micromanaging personal decisions about pregnancy 
or marriage or adoption.
  Small government is great, I guess, for corporations, but it is not 
so great when it comes to the most intimate decisions that families 
make.
  And as I have said on this floor before, it is also hard to take 
seriously Republicans' passionate pleas for this body to defend the 
existence of an unborn fetus when they seem to care so little about 
many of the existential threats that are posed to every American after 
they are born.
  Today, this day, over 100 Americans are going to die from gunshot 
wounds, from murders, and suicides. And whether my Republican 
colleagues agree with me or not that stricter gun laws is part of the 
solution to this uniquely American epidemic that plagues those that are 
born, I don't know that I have ever heard a Republican speech dedicated 
to this crisis on the floor of the Senate. I have heard dozens 
dedicated to the cause of those before birth. It seems that after 
birth, life matters a little bit less to some people in this body.
  So that is what I think. And as I said, I will probably get into some 
hot water for admitting that I understand the arguments that people 
like Senator Daines make. I don't agree with his views, but I 
understand them. And my hope is, is that as we begin this debate over 
the future of reproductive choice and health in this country, as this 
debate heats up--because it is not going away. We are taking a vote 
tomorrow, but this is a debate that is going to consume this Nation if 
the Alito opinion becomes law, which I believe it will.
  My hope is that we are honest about the complexity of this debate, 
but the Republicans are equally honest in the claims that they make.
  Let me just briefly tell you what I mean.
  Today, I heard Republican Senators making a whole bunch of claims 
that are just so ungrounded in truth as to diminish the quality of what 
should be a very important debate on a very weighty subject.
  For instance, I heard Senators make the claim that the protesters who 
were protesting outside or near Supreme Court Justices' homes 
threatened violence against those Justices. That was

[[Page S2412]]

an explicit claim made by people who came down to this floor who might 
have heard it on some unreputable website, but it is not true.
  You can object to protesters being outside of public officials' 
homes. It has happened to all of us, by the way, but don't make up 
threats of violence just because it makes for a better story.
  I heard one Senator say that the Women's Health Protection Act, for 
which I will proudly vote tomorrow, allows for garage abortions. That 
is not true. That is just plainly not true.
  Every State requires that abortions be performed in licensed 
healthcare facilities and nothing in the bill changes it. Don't say 
that just because it makes a better story.
  Many Republicans claim that the bill we are taking up tomorrow allows 
abortions up to the date of birth. That is not true either.
  The Women's Health Protection Act does codify Roe v. Wade, but Roe 
only protects a woman's right to have an abortion without restriction 
until viability and then afterward protects for the woman's health or 
risk of death. The bill simply does not expand the circumstances under 
which an abortion can be performed beyond what currently exists in case 
law.
  So I am going to be honest with my colleagues about the admitted 
complexities--the political, moral complexities of this debate. But I 
expect opponents of the bill that we are debating tomorrow to be 
equally honest in the arguments they make as well.
  So I will have a lot more to say about this topic as we begin what I 
think is a debate that will consume this Nation, rightfully, over the 
course of the coming weeks and months, but for today I will leave it 
there.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Rhode Island.

                          ____________________


[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 25 (Tuesday, February 8, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S563-S567]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          MOTION TO DISCHARGE

  Mr. SCHUMER. Pursuant to S. Res. 27, the Committee on Financing being 
tied on the question of reporting, I move to discharge the Committee on 
Finance from further consideration of the nomination of Sam Bagenstos 
to be General Counsel to the Department of Health and Human Services.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the provisions of S. Res 27, there will 
now be up to 4 hours of debate on the motion, equally divided between 
the two leaders or their designees, with no motions, points of order, 
or amendments in order.
  Mr. SCHUMER. I ask unanimous consent that the vote on the motion to 
discharge be at a time to be determined by the majority leader in 
consultation with the Republican leader, notwithstanding rule XXII.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Ohio.


                         American Manufacturing

  Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, we have had so much good news in Ohio and 
across the country over the last few weeks--rising wages, record job 
growth, a million jobs in 2 months.
  Intel is bringing 10,000 new good-paying manufacturing and trades 
jobs to Central Ohio. That facility will be built by union workers--
electricians, carpenters, laborers, pipefitters, and other workers of 
the skilled trades.
  Hyperion, a fuel manufacturer, is opening the largest factory built 
in Columbus in a decade, creating 700 jobs.
  GE Aviation with Boeing signed a new deal exporting planes built with 
next-generation jet engines developed in Southwest Ohio, supporting 
thousands of Ohio jobs.
  As I was flying into Columbus with Senator Portman a couple of weeks 
ago to join Intel to announce those jobs, I was thinking: Today we are 
finally burying the term ``rust belt.''
  For too long, corporate elites on the coast have used that outdated, 
offensive term--a term that demeans our workers and devalues our work. 
Now Ohio--the center of the country, the heart of the industrial 
Midwest--leads the way in the next generation of manufacturing.
  The State that founded the auto industry and gave us the Wright 
Brothers is today making the most advanced chips that go into cars and 
phones and appliances.
  All of this is made possible because we are putting American workers 
at the center of our economy. It is not a coincidence we are seeing 
this record job growth, when we finally have a President who 
understands what carrying a union card means, who centers workers, who 
cares about wages, who comes from the industrial heartland--a union 
card that means better wages, a union card that means better benefits, 
a union card that often means a more flexible work schedule that 
workers have a decision and input into forming.
  And look at the results we are getting. Last year, for the first time 
in 20 years, our economy grew faster than China. Think about that. For 
the first time in two decades, the American economy grew faster than 
China's economy.
  We know that China and other competitors aren't giving up. They are, 
every week, trying to find new ways to cheat, new ways to undermine 
American jobs.
  We need every possible tool to compete. It is why last year in the 
Senate we passed the Innovation and Competition Act. We passed what we 
are now calling the Make it in America Act. It is a serious effort to 
invest in manufacturing research and development and bring and build 
supply chains back in the United States.
  It is going to mean jobs. It is going to bring down prices. For too 
long, we have had a trade policy and a tax policy lobbied in this body 
by corporate interests that wanted to move overseas for cheap labor. We 
have had a trade and tax policy that essentially hollowed out 
manufacturing in Ohio and across the Midwest. Ohioans know what 
permanent normal trade relations with China 20 years ago when Congress 
passed it--to be asked of corporate America and pushed by people like 
Newt Gingrich--people know what that did to our economy. Almost 
everyone knows the devastation the North American Free Trade Agreement 
caused to industrial towns in Ohio and across the country.
  PNTR and admitting China to the WTO hasn't gotten the same media 
attention, but Ohio steel companies and

[[Page S564]]

other industries know how big a problem it has been. It is how we ended 
up with empty factories, lost dreams, supply chains that are too long, 
too fragile, and that stretch all over the world instead of made in 
America.
  That is why I wrote the Leveling the Playing Field Act that was 
passed into law in 2015. It is why Senator Portman and I are working to 
make sure that our bipartisan Leveling the Playing Field Act 2.0 is in 
the competition bill, the Made in America Act the House passed last 
week.
  Leveling the Playing Field has been critical for Ohio companies, 
allowing them to file and win trade cases against foreign companies 
that cheat the rules. We know our competition hasn't stopped coming up 
with new ways to skirt these rules and distort the global market to 
benefit their own companies.
  The Chinese Government still subsidizes steel. The Chinese Government 
engages in economic espionage to steal American trade secrets to prop 
up their own state-controlled companies.
  Look at the most recent conviction of a Chinese spy trying to steal 
GE Aviation's pioneering jet engine designs to swipe them and take them 
back to China. We need our trade laws to keep up.
  Both the Senate and the House bills include the CHIPS Act to invest 
in new semiconductor production in the United States, like the new 
Intel factory coming to Licking County, east and north of Columbus. 
Even though the United States started the semiconductor industry, today 
those vital chips are mostly made overseas.
  Fewer than 10 percent of chips are made in this country. Right now, 
75 percent of chip manufacturing is in Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, and 
China. It has meant severe shortages and long waits for those chips 
that are critical inputs to so many of the products Americans rely on.
  We need to bring the supply chain back home, starting with Intel in 
Ohio, by passing the CHIPS Act. We must invest in domestic 
manufacturing innovation. It is what Missouri Republican Senator Blunt 
and I worked together to do with our provisions in the Senate bill to 
create more manufacturing hubs across the country.
  The first one, as many in this body remember because they voted for 
it, was in Youngstown some years ago, something called America Makes. 
All of us in the Senate and the House need to get to work immediately 
to get these bills over the finish line.
  If you want to get a sense of how important this is, how strong these 
bills are, just look at what China is doing. The Chinese Communist 
Party is lobbying furiously against this bill. That is right. The CCP 
and its cronies, the communist party in China, are lobbying against the 
bill that invests in American innovation, supports American 
manufacturing, takes on unfair and illegal trade practices. They are 
scared, pure and simple.

  They know that pro-competition bills--the Make it in America Act--
will have real consequences for their cheating and their trying to 
undermine American workers.
  A Reuters headline from November: ``Beijing urges U.S. businesses to 
lobby against China-related bills in Congress.''
  I will say it again: ``Beijing urges U.S. businesses to lobby against 
China-related bills in Congress.''
  Unfortunately--I won't name them on the floor, maybe I should--but 
there are U.S. businesses that are lobbying against this because they 
do enough business in China, exploiting Chinese workers, evading any 
environmental laws or worker safety laws that may be in place.
  The Chinese Government threatens these American companies, recruiting 
them to lobby against the interests of American workers. This time we 
are not rolling over. We are going to stand up for American innovation, 
stand up for American manufacturing, stand up especially for American 
workers.
  As I said, we have a President now who puts workers at the center of 
our economic policy. We have a President who puts workers at the center 
of our economy. We have a President who is not afraid to talk about 
unions, knowing carrying a union card means a better life for workers.
  We are going to get a strong bipartisan bill that increases our 
economic competitors. We know how to speed up our supply chain and 
lower prices and end our reliance on China: make more things in this 
country.
  That is the solution to many of our economic problems: make it in 
Ohio. I urge my colleagues in both parties and both Chambers to go to 
work. Let's get this done for American workers.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Texas.


                                Ukraine

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, many Americans are watching the news, 
reading the newspaper, watching cable news, and they are seeing the 
Russian buildup of troops on the border of Ukraine.
  So I thought what I would do is take just a few moments to speak 
about what is at stake in Ukraine. Why should Americans care, and what 
should we do in response?
  Tensions along the border are high. Shuttle diplomacy is occurring 
and is the order of the day. But more than 100,000 Russian troops are 
in position should an invasion of Ukraine be ordered by Russian 
Federation President Putin.
  Reports indicate that Russia has created a graphic propaganda video, 
something called a false flag operation, to serve as a pretext for 
invading and cyber attacks like those that might precede a planned 
invasion are already underway.
  Not surprisingly, the Kremlin is engaging in a disinformation 
campaign, making every attempt to blame the United States--or any other 
country for that matter--for its own aggressive actions.
  This kind of gaslighting might work in a totalitarian state, but in 
the rest of the world, where we have access to more complete and 
accurate information, we know better. There is no question that Russia 
and Russia alone is responsible for the military buildup on Ukraine's 
border and is also threatening peace in Europe.
  As Frederick Kagan, a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, 
has written:

       This isn't primarily a Ukraine crisis. It's a Russia 
     crisis. More precisely, [it is] a Putin-created crisis aimed 
     at destroying [the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, 
     otherwise known as] NATO.
       It's Putin's attempt to drive the [United States] and its 
     West European allies to put ourselves in a time machine, [to] 
     abdicate our alliance obligations, expose countries 
     previously occupied, brutalized, and exploited by the Soviet 
     Union to Putin's continued aggression, demonstrate our 
     unreliability as partners, and show our unseriousness 
     about defending our own vital national security interests. 
     In return for a promise of nothing at all.

  The United States has played no part in creating this crisis, but I 
do believe we have some responsibilities--not just a treaty obligation 
to our NATO allies--because Ukraine is not yet a member of NATO, so 
that obligation under article 5 does not apply to Ukraine, as I will 
discuss in a moment.
  But I do believe that we have a responsibility to support the 
Ukrainian people as they fight to defend their own sovereignty, despite 
the fact that they are not members of NATO.
  With so many challenges on the home front, though, and around the 
world, it is easy for folks in Texas or Massachusetts or anywhere else 
around the country to wonder, why should we care what is happening in 
Ukraine? Americans are experiencing the highest inflation in 40 years; 
there is growing concern about violent crime; we have a humanitarian 
crisis on our southern border; and let's not forget the ongoing fight 
against the pandemic. We know families are struggling to face the 
challenges right in front of them, let alone those on the other side of 
the globe.
  Americans want to know, how does a conflict on the other side of the 
globe actually impact the United States and, importantly, why should we 
help? I think those are fair questions. The human and financial costs 
of armed conflicts are very high. And we have learned the painful 
lesson during many times in our Nation's history, twice in the last 
century in Europe alone, where there were World Wars centered.
  But we also know how much the free world depends on the United States 
and its leadership and strength to provide stability and prevent wars 
and promote peace, if we can, while safeguarding freedom and democracy 
around the world.

[[Page S565]]

  The United States is a global power, but we are no longer the only 
one. That day has passed. Our leadership role and responsibilities in a 
rules-based international order were earned by the sacrifices of 
generations of Americans who defended our freedoms and our way of life 
and those of our allies.
  Believing, as Ronald Reagan said, that peace comes through strength, 
America's role in the world has been achieved by our military might, by 
our strategic alliances, our commitment to free markets and trade 
around the world that have produced the economy that has allowed us to 
defend ourselves as well as an unwavering dedication to our values. And 
whether we like it or not, our unique role in the world brings with it 
certain responsibilities.
  We can't give anyone--adversary or ally--a reason to doubt our 
commitment to freedom, peace, stability, and security. Unfortunately, 
our reputation for reliability has suffered some damage recently. The 
botched withdrawal from Afghanistan, for example, caused our NATO 
allies to doubt the future of American leadership and our commitments 
under the North Atlantic Treaty.
  Our friends and adversaries alike are wondering if the Afghanistan 
debacle is a one-time misstep or the beginning of dwindling U.S. 
commitment and power. Of course, Mr. Putin and Mr. Xi will not miss an 
opportunity to disparage America's credibility as a reliable ally.
  Our urgent task, by our actions as well as our words, should be to 
convince friend and foe that we will remain a credible friend and ally.
  But either way, Putin is an opportunist, and today the eyes of the 
world are on the United States to see how we will respond to this 
threatened Russian aggression. Will we stand strong in support of 
Ukraine or will we sit passively on the sidelines?
  Make no mistake, Russia is doing far more than just threatening 
Ukraine. President Putin told the world in a speech in 2005 that the 
collapse of the Soviet empire--the Soviet Union--was what he called 
``the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the century.'' That is his 
mindset.
  Putting that empire back together was clearly on his mind when Russia 
invaded the nation of Georgia in 2008, formerly part of the Soviet 
Union, and when Russia annexed Crimea in 2014, also part of the Soviet 
order.
  And, of course, we can be confident this is foremost in his mind as 
he threatens to invade Ukraine, another country that used to be part of 
the Soviet Union.
  So Putin is trying to get away with as much as he can, and it would 
be naive to think that he will stop at Ukraine.
  If the United States fails to support Ukraine at this pivotal moment, 
other authoritarian governments, like those in China and Iran, will 
take note.
  Today's New York Times had a story that said, ``Both Sides of the 
Taiwan Strait Are Closely Watching Ukraine's Crisis,'' in other words, 
the People's Republic of China--mainland China--as well as Taiwan, the 
independent democratic state right across that thin band of water known 
as the South China Sea.
  Here is what one of the representatives of Taiwan said in this 
article. He said: ``If the Western powers fail to respond to Russia, 
they do embolden the Chinese thinking regarding action on Taiwan.''
  So this is not just about Ukraine. This is not just about Europe. 
This is about America's credibility and that of our friends and allies 
around the world and our willingness to stand up for our values and 
defend our freedoms.
  If our adversaries see that the United States responds merely with 
passivity or words, they too will inevitably see opportunities for them 
to exploit. That would risk further geopolitical instability and the 
cause of peace. It would inevitably diminish America's leadership 
position in the world, the global order of which we are what Elbridge 
Colby has termed the ``cornerstone balancer,'' a powerful country 
anchoring the coalition of freedom-loving nations.
  So, yes, Ukraine is on the frontlines of the current crisis, but the 
security of Europe is also in question. The reach of Russia's 
aspirations for reestablished empire are, as well, and, as I said, 
there are global repercussions to however we choose to respond.
  I am not suggesting that President Biden send American troops to 
Ukraine. I want to be clear on that point. I know of no one calling for 
American troops to be deployed to Ukraine.
  There are, however, concrete steps we can take to help Ukraine defend 
itself without putting American lives on the line, and, fortunately, 
there is precedent for that.
  In the early 1940s, Nazi Germany was making dramatic advances across 
Europe, and Great Britain was being pummeled by the blitz, a bombing 
campaign by the German air forces. While Britain was hanging on by a 
thread, Prime Minister Churchill asked President Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt for help from the United States.
  This ultimately resulted in a very creative and successful solution 
known as the Lend-Lease Act. In the words of President Roosevelt, this 
legislation transformed the United States into the ``arsenal of 
democracy'' by supplying Great Britain with the materiel it needed to 
fend off German attacks.
  He compared it to lending your neighbor a garden hose if his house 
was on fire. It wouldn't just protect the neighbor's home; it would 
protect your home as well.
  Congress and the American people agreed with President Roosevelt's 
logic, and this legislation was signed into law in March 1941.
  Soon after, American warships, aircraft, weaponry, oil, food, and 
other critical resources made their way across the Atlantic to Allied 
forces fighting against Germany.
  I think this is part of the response we need to provide today to 
provide the Ukrainians with the ability to defend themselves under a 
modern version of the 1941 Lend-Lease Act.
  With the inspiration of President Roosevelt in the 1941 act, I have 
worked with a number of my colleagues--Republicans and Democrats 
alike--to draft a 2022 version of that legislation, called, not 
surprisingly, the Ukraine Democracy Defense Lend-Lease Act, which will 
ensure that Ukrainian forces and the Ukrainian people will have what 
they need to deter and defend against Russian invasions.
  As it stands today, the President of the United States has a menu of 
options to support our international friends in times of conflict. In 
some cases, such as the loan of equipment, the United States will 
eventually retain end use. In others, such as grants and emergency aid, 
we do not recover the funding or the assets sent to our friends.
  This bill would provide an additional option to that menu, allowing 
the United States to provide assistance that may otherwise be 
unfeasible unless we could retain end use.
  This legislation would authorize President Biden to enter into lend-
lease agreements directly with Ukraine and provide military equipment 
necessary to protect the Ukrainian people.
  In an ideal world, access to this materiel will help the Ukrainians 
defend themselves and deter Russia from mounting an invasion in the 
first place. Knowing that Ukraine has access to the ``arsenal of 
democracy'' could help prevent Putin from risking a deadly war. But if 
Putin makes a bad decision to move forward, Ukrainian forces will have 
the lethal weapons that they need to defend their sovereignty.

  They will also have the support of the United States and our NATO 
allies.
  In the Senate, there is clear support for this sovereignty of 
Ukraine, and I am glad to have worked with my colleagues on this 
legislation that includes this lend-lease component.
  I want to thank Chairman Menendez and Ranking Member Risch on the 
Foreign Relations Committee and a larger bipartisan group of our 
colleagues who have been working on a comprehensive approach to counter 
this threatened aggression by Russia. We have discussed my lend-lease 
bill, as well as additional security assistance and lethal aid for 
Ukraine. And, as we have read, Senator Menendez and Senator Risch are 
negotiating a limited but immediate sanctions response to this 
aggression, including cyber attacks, as well as the threat of 
additional sanctions in the event of an invasion.
  As the chairman and the ranking member have said, negotiations are 
making some progress, and I hope we

[[Page S566]]

can wrap things up quickly and bring the bill to the Senate floor 
without much more delay.
  The fact is, we are racing against the clock. Putin could invade 
Ukraine at a moment's notice, and he is not going to wait on the U.S. 
Senate to act. That is why time is of the essence.
  Ideally, the lend-lease agreement, military assistance, sanctions, 
and other provisions included in this package will cause Putin to think 
twice about invading. But that can only happen if we act before Putin 
acts.
  So the clock is ticking, and we need to move. I am encouraged by the 
bipartisan support we have seen for Ukraine and for this effort, and I 
hope we can take action soon to reaffirm America's position as the lead 
defender of global peace and security.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Connecticut.


                                 JCPOA

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, the world was safer when the JCPOA, the 
Iran nuclear agreement negotiated by President Obama, was in place. The 
world became a much less safe place when President Trump tore up that 
agreement against the advice of his Secretary of State and his 
Secretary of Defense.
  We have an opportunity right now to reconstruct that agreement--or 
the most important elements of it--so that Iran once again is as far as 
possible from being able to obtain a nuclear weapon. That would make 
the region safer. That would make the United States safer.
  But time is of the essence. U.S. negotiators, European negotiators, 
the Russians, the Chinese, and the Iranians are right now entering what 
could be the last round of discussions, and it is absolutely imperative 
that the U.S. Senate provide this administration with the support it 
needs to effectuate an agreement.
  I want to talk to my colleagues for a few minutes about how important 
it is for the United States and our European allies--for the world, 
indeed--to reconstruct a diplomatic agreement with Iran.
  And I want to also talk for a moment about how disastrous the last 5 
years have been--a period of time during which the United States has 
largely been out of compliance with that agreement.
  The JCPOA was signed by the United States and European allies and was 
entered into, on behalf of a coalition that included Russia and China, 
with the Iranian Government. It was signed in July of 2015, and within 
about 6 months, the IAEA was able to verify that Iran had completed its 
obligations under the nuclear agreement.
  This included commitments that would increase the amount of time that 
Iran needed to acquire enough material for a nuclear weapon from 2 to 3 
months--that was the amount of time that it would have taken them prior 
to the nuclear agreement--to at least a year or more.
  The agreement reduced Iran's stockpiles of enriched uranium by 
requiring it to ship 25,000 pounds of it out of the country. Iran 
committed to dismantling and removing two-thirds of its centrifuges. It 
modified its heavy water reactor at Arak and filled it with concrete so 
that it could never be used again, preventing Iran from producing 
weapons-grade plutonium. And, finally, Iran agreed to provide 
unprecedented access to its nuclear facilities and to its nuclear 
supply chain--not only the sites that we knew about, but it also agreed 
to adopt what are called the additional protocols which allow the IAEA 
to be able to request and get access to sites in which they might have 
some suspicion that there was new prohibited nuclear research activity 
happening.
  Under this deal, Iran reduced its stockpile of uranium by 98 percent. 
It kept its level of uranium enrichment at 3.67 percent, significantly 
below the levels that you would need to make a bomb.
  The JCPOA, as I said, got the Iranians to reduce their number of 
centrifuges from 20,000 to 6,000.
  And so this was the world that President Trump inherited--the United 
States, Europe, Russia, and China united on Iran policy; Iran shutting 
down major elements of their nuclear research program, such that they 
were now more than a year out from getting a nuclear weapon if they 
made the decision to achieve a nuclear weapon. That is called the 
breakout time, the time from which a country decides it wants a nuclear 
weapon to the point at which it has a nuclear weapon. For Iran, that 
went from 2 to 3 months prior to the agreement to over a year after the 
agreement.
  But it also lined up the United States, Europe, China, and Russia--
this unlikely alliance of traditional adversaries, at least with 
respect to Russia and China--so that we could then move on to Iran's 
other malevolent behaviors.
  Critics of the deal said it only pertains to the nuclear program, but 
that is not the only bad behavior that Iran is engaged in.
  Well, President Trump inherited a united front of unlikely allies 
that then could be utilized to pressure Iran to make changes to its 
ballistic missile program, to reduce its support for terrorist 
organizations and proxy armies around the region. That is why Secretary 
Tillerson and Secretary Mattis and many other Trump advisers encouraged 
him to stay in the deal.
  But he didn't. President Trump tore up the deal and announced to the 
country and the world that he was going to pursue a different strategy.
  Critics of JCPOA said that President Obama shouldn't have entered 
into an agreement. Critics said that he should have held out and kept 
applying more and more sanctions, even if the Europeans walked away, as 
a means of getting Iran to come to the table on a broader agreement 
that would include its ballistic missile program and its support for 
terrorists.
  President Obama believed it was important to get the nuclear question 
off the table. But to the extent there was any silver lining of 
President Trump's decision, it is that it allowed us for 4 years to 
test the theory of the opponents, the theory of the critics, because 
President Trump implemented the strategy that the critics of the JCPOA 
wanted President Obama to employ.
  Donald Trump imposed greater sanctions. He did it without the 
Europeans, and he demanded that he would only talk to the Iranians if 
they came to the table on everything. In fact, he set it down on a 
piece of paper.
  Secretary of State Mike Pompeo gave Iran a list of 12 demands and 
said that we will come to the table and talk to you and we will 
consider releasing these sanctions if you talk to us about all of your 
dangerous behaviors in the region--your nuclear program, your ballistic 
missile program, your support for terrorists. So President Trump gave 
us the gift of testing the theory of the opponents. You know how the 
story goes. It was a spectacular failure.
  It was a spectacular failure in multiple respects. First, let's just 
talk about what happened to Iran's nuclear program. In May 2019 Iran 
announces that it will no longer observe the JCPOA stockpile limit. 
And, as of November of last year, the stockpile of enriched uranium--
enriched uranium gas--was roughly 11 times what it was during the 
agreement.
  In July 2019, Iran began enriching uranium up to 4.5 percent, above 
3.6 percent, as specified in the agreement. In January of 2021, it 
began enriching uranium to 20 percent; in April of 2021, up to 60 
percent.
  In September 2019, Iran announced it would no longer be bound by any 
research and development limitations on advanced centrifuges. They 
started that research again.
  In November 2019, Iran announced that it would start enriching 
uranium at Fordow up to 4.5 percent. Under the JCPOA, enrichment at 
Fordow was prohibited for 15 years. By January of last year, Iran was 
enriching uranium to 20 percent at Fordow.
  And in November of 2020, Iran's Parliament passed a bill requiring 
the country to build that new heavy water reactor at Arak that allows 
them a path to plutonium. Once built, that reactor will be capable of 
producing enough plutonium annually for two nuclear weapons.
  And since February of this year, Iran has been restricting that IAEA 
access to its facilities. It no longer complies with the additional 
protocols. So if you ask for access to a site in which you think there 
is new nuclear research activity being undertaken, Iran no longer feels 
obligated to grant that access.

[[Page S567]]

  Iran went to a breakout time of 2 to 3 months to a breakout time 
under the agreement of more than a year, to, today, a breakout time of 
2 months--arguably less than the breakout time prior to the deal.
  But it is important to also note that during these last 4 years, none 
of Iran's other malevolent activities in the region have abated. In 
fact, arguably, they have gotten worse. Iran continues to support proxy 
armies in Syria, Yemen, Lebanon. In fact, their connection with 
Hezbollah in Lebanon and with the Houthis in Yemen is probably stronger 
today than it was during the JCPOA.
  After President Trump backed out of the JCPOA, Iran restarted attacks 
on U.S. troops. Now, Iran has been engaged in permanent destabilizing 
activities in Iraq since the outset of that war, but during the period 
of time that we were in the JCPOA, they were not shooting directly at 
U.S. troops. Their proxy armies had stood down. Once we were outside of 
the JCPOA, those attacks started again. In fact, one rocket that was 
sent by a proxy army at a U.S. staff base in Iraq could have killed 100 
U.S. troop members. It just narrowly missed.
  The Iranians have undertaken attacks against the Saudis that they 
never would have contemplated while the JCPOA was in effect, taking 
action against Saudi oil facilities, including a high-profile attack 
against Saudi Aramco.
  And their proxy armies, similarly, are firing at our friends in the 
Gulf. Just in the last few months, we have seen an increased level of 
drone attacks and missile attacks against Saudi Arabia and the UAE from 
inside Yemen.
  One of my Republican colleagues here in this body claimed that 
Trump's Iran policy had ``restored deterrence.'' That is a laughable 
proposition because it did exactly the opposite. Once we got out of 
that agreement, Iran started their nuclear research program to the 
point that it is stronger than it was prior to the JCPOA in some ways. 
They didn't stop any of their other destabilizing activity. It got 
worse, and they didn't come back to the table.

  The whole point of the critics of the Obama policy was that if we had 
just kept on applying sanctions, Iran would come to the table on 
everything. Trump tried it. It didn't work. Iran didn't come to the 
table on anything.
  Their actions in the region, their actions against the United States, 
their nuclear research program just got more serious and worse.
  Listen, diplomacy is not weakness. News flash: Occasionally there are 
diplomatic agreements that are in the best interests of the United 
States, and the JCPOA was inarguably one of them. The data tells a 
clear story.
  Iran wasn't a good actor during the JCPOA. They were still engaged in 
all sorts of deleterious activity. But Donald Trump inherited the 
ability to use that coalition that was built to build the JCPOA to take 
on that other activity. He inherited a nuclear research program which 
was controlled, and he threw it all away.
  What is interesting is that many of our allies who were very 
skeptical of the JCPOA when it was signed are now very supportive of 
the United States reentering it. It tells you that they see the same 
story that I am telling you.
  Our Gulf allies, who were among the most vocal opponents of the JCPOA 
in 2014 and 2015, sent out a joint statement urging ``a mutual return 
to full compliance of the JCPOA.'' This was a deal that the Gulf 
nations opposed, and they now support the United States entering back 
into it.
  And a cavalcade of Israeli officials--former intelligence and defense 
officials who can now feel freer to speak about their personal views--
have been equally clear about the need to get back into this agreement.
  Tamir Pardo was the former director of Mossad. For 5 years he 
directed the Mossad. He said:

       What happened in 2018 was a tragedy. It was an 
     unforgiveable strategy, the fact that Israel pushed the 
     United States to withdraw from the agreement 10 years early. 
     It was a strategic mistake.

  Amos Yadlin, the former chief of the IDF military intelligence unit, 
a job he held for 4 years, said: ``If we want to be honest, what 
postponed Iranian progress towards achieving nuclear weapons was the 
nuclear agreement--and not military action. . . . [Iran is] closer now 
than they have ever been before. And that is because of the very wrong 
policy . . .'' of withdrawing from the agreement.
  Gadi Eisenkot, former IDF chief of staff said that ``the fact that 
the U.S. withdrew in 2018 from the . . . deal released Iran from all 
restrictions and inspections in the deal, even if there were holes [in 
the agreement], and brought Iran to the most advanced position today 
with regard to its nuclear program.''
  And so, so many of our friends in the region see the need to get back 
into this agreement. The status quo is not acceptable.
  Now, it is not going to be easy because there are elements of Iran's 
progress in nuclear research that are difficult, if not impossible, to 
undo given how much new research, how many advanced centrifuges they 
have built since President Trump left the agreement.
  And, quite frankly, there are some sanctions that we have applied to 
Iran since the nuclear agreement that we aren't going to release, 
because we told the Iranians and the world that we were going to apply 
sanctions to Iran relevant to their ballistic missile program and their 
support for terrorist organizations, and we did that--some of them 
under President Trump. Those aren't going to go away.
  But it is important for the Biden administration to see that many of 
the sanctions that Trump put in place during that period of time may 
have sounded good, but they had no impact on Iranian behavior.
  I would put on that list the sanctioning of the Iranian Revolutionary 
Guard and the sanctioning of the Supreme Leader. These aren't good 
people, but those sanctions didn't change Iran's behavior for the 
better. In fact, during that period of time, their behavior got worse. 
Their nuclear research program became more advanced. And so, if 
releasing those designations or sanctions are required in order to make 
the world safer and get Iran back into the nuclear box, then I hope the 
administration will give serious consideration.
  I hope the administration understands the vital importance of getting 
back into this agreement and being willing to do the tough things in 
order to achieve a new nuclear agreement with the Iranians.
  The Iranians are going to have to make concessions as well. The 
Iranians are going to have to make some serious changes to their 
current scope of nuclear research. But it is the only way to unlock 
sanctions relief for a country that badly needs it. There is no way for 
the current President of Iran to make good on all the promises he made 
without the sanctions relief.

  But time is of the essence. Time is of the essence. President Biden 
promised to restart diplomacy with Iran to make the world a safer place 
by getting back into a nuclear agreement. This is the moment to do it, 
and I would urge the administration to take all of the smart steps 
necessary in order to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, 
making the region and the world a safer place.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Peters). The Senator from Connecticut.


                 Order of Business--Motion to Discharge

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I yield back all time on the motion to 
discharge.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Duly noted.

                          ____________________


[Senate Report 117-237]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


                                                     Calendar No. 615
117th Congress       }                         {           Report
                                 SENATE
 2d Session          }                         {           117-237
_______________________________________________________________________


        NATIONAL CLIMATE ADAPTATION AND RESILIENCE STRATEGY ACT

                               __________

                              R E P O R T

                                 of the

                   COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND

                          GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

                          UNITED STATES SENATE

                              to accompany

                                S. 3531

              TO REQUIRE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO PRODUCE
              A NATIONAL CLIMATE ADAPTATION AND RESILIENCE
                    STRATEGY, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

		[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]


               December 12, 2022.--Ordered to be printed
               
               
               		       __________
               		       
               		       
               	    U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE     

39-010			   WASHINGTON : 2022               	     
               
               
               
        COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

                   GARY C. PETERS, Michigan, Chairman
THOMAS R. CARPER, Delaware           ROB PORTMAN, Ohio
MAGGIE HASSAN, New Hampshire         RON JOHNSON, Wisconsin
KYRSTEN SINEMA, Arizona              RAND PAUL, Kentucky
JACKY ROSEN, Nevada                  JAMES LANKFORD, Oklahoma
ALEX PADILLA, California             MITT ROMNEY, Utah
JON OSSOFF, Georgia                  RICK SCOTT, Florida
                                     JOSH HAWLEY, Missouri

                   David M. Weinberg, Staff Director
                    Zachary I. Schram, Chief Counsel
            Lena C. Chang, Director of Governmental Affairs
              Chelsea A. Davis, Professional Staff Member
                Pamela Thiessen, Minority Staff Director
            Sam J. Mulopulos, Minority Deputy Staff Director
       Cara G. Mumford, Minority Director of Governmental Affairs
                     Laura W. Kilbride, Chief Clerk

                                                     Calendar No. 615
117th Congress       }                         {           Report
                                 SENATE
 2d Session          }                         {           117-237

======================================================================



 
        NATIONAL CLIMATE ADAPTATION AND RESILIENCE STRATEGY ACT

                                _______
                                

               December 12, 2022.--Ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

 Mr. Peters, from the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
                    Affairs, submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                         [To accompany S. 3531]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs, to which was referred the bill (S. 3531) to require 
the Federal Government to produce a national climate adaption 
and resilience strategy, and for other purposes, having 
considered the same, reports favorably thereon with an 
amendment, in the nature of a substitute, and recomends that 
the bill, as amended, do pass.

                                CONTENTS

                                                                   Page
  I. Purpose and Summary..............................................1
 II. Background and Need for the Legislation..........................2
III. Legislative History..............................................2
 IV. Section-by-Section Analysis......................................3
  V. Evaluation of Regulatory Impact..................................5
 VI. Congressional Budget Office Cost Estimate........................5
VII. Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported............8

                         I. PURPOSE AND SUMMARY

    S. 3531, the National Climate Adaptation and Resilience 
Strategy Act of 2022, provides an obligation for the Federal 
Government to implement a unified strategy that coordinates 
efforts across all agencies in adapting to climate change. To 
ensure the obligation is fulfilled, the bill creates a Chief 
Resilience Officer of the United States position, establishes 
interagency resilience Working Groups, and requires a National 
Climate Adaptation and Resilience Strategy that will improve 
preparations nationwide for climate change, includes 
recommendations to compensate for the inequities in policy and 
resource allocations, and decrease the harm of climate change 
to human health and wellbeing in America.

              II. BACKGROUND AND THE NEED FOR LEGISLATION

    Frontline communities face an increasing range of climate 
induced risks that pose a threat to property, local 
infrastructure, and human wellbeing. As the consequences of 
climate change continue to manifest, whether through record-
breaking natural disasters, or less observable but equally 
devastating slow-onset climate hazards, enhancing resilience 
has become increasingly essential.
    In many cases, Congress has provided federal agencies with 
dedicated resources and authorities to support for local 
climate adaptation efforts, but agencies often operate 
independently of one another. The fragmented nature of federal 
resilience operations is inefficient and unnecessarily burdens 
non-federal partners attempting to access resources and receive 
other support. Improved federal coordination could ensure 
investments maximize the resilience benefits for vulnerable 
communities and infrastructure, as well as improve the 
effectiveness and efficiency of service delivery for eligible 
communities and populations.
    The National Climate Adaptation and Resilience Strategy Act 
of 2022 (the NCARS Act) would require the federal government to 
produce a national climate adaptation and resilience strategy 
representing a unified federal plan to increase the resilience 
of America's frontline communities. It would instruct the 
federal government to create an implementation plan to ensure 
the strategy is effectively translated into improved and 
streamlined federal adaptation operations. The NCARS Act would 
also authorize a chief resilience officer position in the White 
House, following successful models adopted by nearly a dozen 
states, including Florida\1\, Louisiana\2\, and South 
Carolina\3\.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\Associated Press, DeSantis appoints new Florida chief resilience 
officer (Nov. 20, 2021), https://apnews.com/article/climate-donald-
trump-florida-environment-ron-desantis-
e40102bdcb145f0b739897a91bf5da63.
    \2\Office of the Louisiana Governor, Governor's Office of Coastal 
Activities (accessed Nov. 17, 2022), https://gov.louisiana.gov/page/
governors-office-of-coastal-activities.
    \3\Office of the Governor of South Carolina, Gov. Henry McMaster 
Names South Carolina's First Chief Resilience Officer (Mar. 9, 2021), 
https://governor.sc.gov/news/2021-03/gov-henry-mcmaster-names-south-
carolinas-first-chief-resilience-officer.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        III. LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

    Senator Chris Coons (D-DE) introduced S. 3531, the National 
Climate Adaptation and Resilience Strategy Act of 2022, with 
Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), on January 20, 2022. The bill 
was referred to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs. Senator Susan Collins (R-ME), Senator 
Jacky Rosen (D-NV), and Senator Bill Cassidy (R-LA) joined as 
original cosponsors. The bill was later cosponsored by Senator 
Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), Senator 
Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA), and Senator 
Alex Padilla (D-CA).
    The Committee considered S. 3531 at a business meeting on 
September 28, 2022. During the business meeting, an amendment 
in the nature of a substitute was offered by Chairman Peters 
clarifying intent and incorporating technical assistance from 
the Office of Management and Budget and Council on 
Environmental Quality. Senator Scott filed, but did not offer, 
an amendment striking the authorization of appropriations 
provision and instead requiring the Executive Office of the 
President to use existing funds to carry out the bill's 
requirements. Chairman Peters offered a modified substitute 
amendment incorporating Senator Scott's desire to eliminate the 
bill's authorization of new appropriations and it was adopted 
by voice vote en bloc. The bill, as amended, was ordered 
reported favorably by voice vote. Senators Peters, Carper, 
Hassan, Sinema, Rosen, Padilla, Ossoff, Portman, Johnson, Paul, 
Lankford, Romney, Scott, and Hawley were present. Senators 
Romney, Lankford, and Hawley were recorded ``No.''

        IV. SECTION-BY-SECTION ANALYSIS OF THE BILL, AS REPORTED

Section 1. Short title

    This bill will be referred to as the National Climate 
Adaptation and Resilience Strategy Act or the NCARS Act.

Section 2. National Climate Adaptation and Resilience Strategy

            Part (a): Definitions
    This section defines several terms relevant to the bill, 
including adaptive capacity, frontline communities, and slow-
onset climate hazard.
            Part (b): Chief Resilience Officer and National Climate 
                    Adaptation and Resilience Working Groups
    Section 2(b)(1) directs the President to appoint a Chief 
Resilience Officer of the United States to lead the whole-of-
government effort to build resilience to climate change and 
establish the National Climate Adaptation and Resilience 
Working Groups (Working Groups) described in subsection 
2(b)(2). At the end of a Presidential administration, the Chief 
Resilience Officer will delegate their duties to the Executive 
Secretary of the Working Groups. The Chief Resilience Officer 
shall be compensated by the Federal Government at level III of 
the Executive Schedule.
    Section 2(b)(2) directs the Chief Resilience Officer to 
establish up to five Working Groups to help coordinate the 
production of the Operations Report described in section 2(d) 
and the Strategy and Implementation Plan described in 2(e). 
This section further instructs the Chief Resilience Officer to 
identify the federal agencies relevant to the focus of each 
Working Group and appoint a representative with resilience 
expertise from each relevant agency to serve as a member of the 
group. This section also contains details about the minimum 
frequency of Working Group meetings and support personnel for 
the groups. The Working Groups will assist in the 
standardization across represented agencies of, with respect to 
climate change, the term ``resilience'' to promote greater 
consistency in Federal resilience leadership. The Chief 
Resilience Officer may designate as chairperson of a Working 
Group the head of a represented agency that serves on that 
Working Group.
            Part (c): Partners Council on Climate Adaptation and 
                    Resilience
    Section 2(c)(1) establishes a Partners Council on Climate 
Adaptation and Resilience (Council).
    The purpose of the Council outlined in section 2(c)(2) is 
to provide the Chief Resilience Officer and Working Groups with 
recommendations for how the federal government can better 
support vulnerable frontline communities.
    Section 2(c)(3) outlines that the Council will provide a 
report to the President and Working Groups within 16 months of 
enactment, and triennially thereafter, that details: observed 
deficiencies in federal resilience operations, the resources 
necessary for local communities to adequately adapt to climate 
change, and other recommendations to support non-federal 
partner resilience efforts.
    Section 2(c)(4) establishes the Chief Resilience Officer as 
the chair of the Council. This section also directs the Chief 
Resilience Officer to appoint a vice-chair from the described 
members.
    Section 2(c)(5) stipulates that 20 members of the Council 
shall be appointed by the Chief Resilience Officer and will 
support the mission of the Council and meet certain 
distribution criteria relating to the sector each member 
represents. The Chief Resilience Officer will also prioritize 
the appointment of individuals who--to the maximum extent 
practicable--have first-hand experience of climate 
vulnerability in the U.S., represent a diversity of 
backgrounds, and represent a diversity of U.S. geographies. 
This section also describes the term limits and procedures to 
fill Council vacancies. The Chief Resilience Officer may, with 
the consent of those representatives, appoint not more than 3 
representatives of represented agencies to the Council that the 
Chief Resilience Officer determines would promote dialogue 
useful for implementation.
    Section 2(c)(6) describes certain details relating to 
Council meetings, including frequency and the ability for 
remote participation.
    Section 2(c)(7) states that Section 14 of the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act does not apply to the Council.
            Part (d): National Climate Adaptation and Resilience 
                    Operations Report
    This section directs the Chief Resilience Officer and 
Working Groups to submit a report to the President and Congress 
within 16 months of enactment, and triennially thereafter, 
detailing the climate resilience operations of each federal 
agency represented on any Working Group. The report must 
include a summary of resilience funding available from each 
represented agency. As part of the report, the Chief Resilience 
Officer and Working Groups must also develop a cross-agency 
analysis that identifies deficiencies, overlap, gaps, 
inconsistencies, and opportunities for increased coordination 
around resilience operations between the represented agencies 
to improve the whole-of-government response to climate change 
and support the production of the National Climate Adaptation 
and Resilience Strategy required in Section 6.
            Part (e): National Climate Adaptation and Resilience 
                    Strategy
    This section requires the Chief Resilience Officer and 
Working Groups to prepare a National Climate Adaptation and 
Resilience Strategy (Strategy) within three years of enactment, 
to be updated triennially, which must present an overarching 
strategic vision and specific strategies for how the federal 
government will address the threats of climate change in the 
U.S., taking into account recommendations from the Partners 
Council established in Section 4. This section also outlines a 
number of specific considerations the Chief Resilience Officer 
and Working Groups must address as part of the Strategy, 
including: a direct federal government response to climate 
change; support of non-federal partners' response to climate 
change; climate information; resilience metrics and indicators; 
funding climate adaptation; and social equity.
    Section 2(e)(2) directs the Chief Resilience Officer and 
Working Groups to develop an Implementation Plan concurrently 
with each iteration of the Strategy, which must describe the 
roles and responsibilities of each agency in carrying out the 
Strategy, any interagency agreements devised to carry out 
portions of the Strategy, and any metrics and indicators used 
to track the federal government's progress and success in 
implementing the Strategy.
    Section 2(e)(3) Congress requires the Government 
Accountability Office to submit a report to the President and 
Congress within 2 years of each iteration of the Strategy and 
Implementation Plan that assesses the extent to which the 
Strategy and Implementation Plan have been carried out by the 
federal government and the progress made towards developing an 
effective whole-of-government effort to build resilience to 
climate change.
    Section 2(e)(4) requires the Chief Resilience Officer to 
publish drafts of the Strategy and Implementation Plan and 
solicit comments from the public for the Working Groups to 
consider before publishing final versions of the reports.
            Part (f): General Provisions
    This section sunsets the Act after the publication of the 
third Government Accountability Office assessment or on the 
last day of fiscal year 2033, whichever comes first.

                   V. EVALUATION OF REGULATORY IMPACT

    Pursuant to the requirements of paragraph 11(b) of rule 
XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee has 
considered the regulatory impact of this bill and determined 
that the bill will have no regulatory impact within the meaning 
of the rules. The Committee agrees with the Congressional 
Budget Office's statement that the bill contains no 
intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the 
Unfunded Mandates Reform Act (UMRA) and would impose no costs 
on state, local, or tribal governments.

             VI. CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE COST ESTIMATE

                                      U.S Congress,
                               Congressional Budget Office,
                                  Washington, DC, November 9, 2022.
Hon. Gary C. Peters,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, U.S. 
        Senate, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed table summarizing estimated budgetary 
effects and mandates information for some of the legislation 
that has been ordered reported by the Senate Committee on 
Homeland security and Governmental Affairs during the 117th 
Congress.
    If you wish further details, we will be pleased to provide 
them. The CBO staff contact for each estimate is listed on the 
enclosed table.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.

           SUMMARY ESTIMATES OF LEGISLATION ORDERED REPORTED

    The Congressional Budget Act of 1974 requires the 
Congressional Budget Office, to the extent practicable, to 
prepare estimates of the budgetary effects of legislation 
ordered reported by Congressional authorizing committees. In 
order to provide the Congress with as much information as 
possible, the attached table summarizes information about the 
estimated direct spending and revenue effects of some of the 
legislation that has been ordered reported by the Senate 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs during 
the 117th Congress. The legislation listed in this table 
generally would have small effects, if any, on direct spending 
or revenues, CBO estimates. Where possible, the table also 
provides information about the legislation's estimated effects 
on spending subject to appropriation and on intergovernmental 
and private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates 
Reform Act.

                                                                      ESTIMATED BUDGETARY EFFECTS AND MANDATES INFORMATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                           Increases On-
                                                                                                                          Spending Subject   Pay-As-You-       Budget
   Bill          Title         Status        Last Action       Budget Function    Direct  Spending,   Revenues,  2023-   to Appropriation,        Go         Deficits      Mandates     Contact
  Number                                                                              2023-2032             2032             2023-2027        Procedures   Beginning in
                                                                                                                                                Apply?         2033?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
S. 3531     National        Ordered               09/28/22                 800    Between zero and                   0   Not estimated      Yes            No            No           Matthew
             Climate         reported                                                     $500,000                                                                                     Pickford
             Adaptation
             and
             Resilience
             Strategy Act
             of 2022
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
S. 3531 would require the federal government to produce the National Climate Adaptation and Resilience Strategy to address vulnerabilities of federal agencies to climate change. The bill also
  would establish the position of Chief Resilience Officer and would authorize working groups to coordinate efforts between agencies to adapt to climate change. The Government Accountability
  Office would assess both the strategy and its implementation within two years of completion. CBO estimates that enacting S. 3531 would have an insignificant effect on direct spending and no
  effect on revenues over the 2023-2032 period. CBO has not estimated the discretionary costs of implementing S. 3531. The bill contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as
  defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act.

       VII. CHANGES IN EXISTING LAW MADE BY THE BILL, AS REPORTED

    This legislation would make no change in existing law, 
within the meaning of clauses (a) and (b) of subparagraph 12 of 
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, because this 
legislation would not repeal or amend any provision of current 
law.

                                  [all]
[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 62 (Thursday, April 7, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2071-S2073]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                                Ukraine

  Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I just want to make some comments regarding 
what the junior Senator from Missouri was just talking about on the 
floor, and I know that my colleague from Hawaii was providing 
commentary as well.
  It is hard to comprehend how any Member of Congress, House or Senate, 
could come to the floor and make the criticism of the Biden 
administration regarding its Ukraine policy, especially with regard to 
the military assistance provided by this administration, and that same 
Senator, along with a long list of Republican Senators, voted against 
all the money for Ukraine just a couple weeks ago, $13.6 billion.
  But, unfortunately, it is entirely consistent with what those same 31 
Senators have been doing for the last couple of weeks. They voted 
against all the money in March, and then they criticize President 
Biden. In fact, the day of President Zelenskyy's speech to the 
Congress--that inspiring speech--that so many of us were moved by, 
people in both parties, both Houses, all across the country, in fact, 
across the world were moved by what he said and, frankly, challenged by 
what he said.
  We have to do more, even in my judgment, than the $13.6 billion. But 
as the junior Senator from Missouri should know--I hope he knows this--
since the beginning of this administration, just on the military 
assistance, we have provided $2.6 billion. So more than $2.5 billion 
dollars just in military assistance, but the bulk of that is in that 
spending bill that we passed a couple of weeks ago that has the $13.6 
billion.
  Here is what the Washington Post says, and I will read the headline 
and the date, and then ask consent to enter it into the Record. Here is 
the headline:

       More than two dozen Senate Republicans demand Biden do more 
     for Ukraine after voting against $13.6 billion for Ukraine.

  Mr. President, dated March 17, 2022, a story by Mariana Alfaro and 
Eugene Scott, I ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in 
the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                            [March 17, 2022]

More Than Two Dozen Senate Republicans Demand Biden Do More for Ukraine 
             After Voting Against $13.6 Billion for Ukraine

                  (By Mariana Alfaro and Eugene Scott)


Thirty-one Senate Republicans voted last week against the $1.5 trillion 
 spending bill to fund the government, increase U.S. defense spending 
and provide humanitarian and military assistance to Ukraine. In recent 
       days, many of them have clamored for more weapons and aid.

       More than two dozen Senate Republicans are demanding that 
     President Biden do more to aid war-torn Ukraine and arm its 
     forces against Russia's brutal assault, after voting last 
     week against $13.6 billion in military and humanitarian 
     assistance for Ukraine. Consider Sen. Rick Scott (R-Fla.), 
     who heard Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's emotional 
     plea in a virtual address to Congress on Wednesday for more 
     weapons and a no-fly zone over Ukraine.
       ``President Biden needs to make a decision TODAY: either 
     give Ukraine access to the planes and antiaircraft defense 
     systems it needs to defend itself, or enforce a no-fly zone 
     to close Ukrainian skies to Russian attacks,'' Scott said in 
     a statement. ``If President Biden does not do this NOW, 
     President Biden will show himself to be absolutely heartless 
     and ignorant of the deaths of innocent Ukrainian children and 
     families.''
       Last week, Scott was one of 31 Republicans to vote against 
     a sweeping, $1.5 trillion spending bill to fund government 
     agencies and departments through the remainder of the fiscal 
     year, a bill that also included $13.6 billion in assistance 
     for Ukraine. Biden signed the bill into law Tuesday, saying 
     the United States was ``moving urgently to further augment 
     the support to the brave people of Ukraine as they defend 
     their country.''
       After casting a ``no'' vote, Scott assailed the overall 
     spending bill as wasteful, arguing that it was filled with 
     lawmakers' pet projects. ``It makes my blood boil,'' Scott 
     said last week.
       Democrats quickly condemned what they saw as glaring 
     hypocrisy among the Republicans who voted against the aid but 
     were quick to criticize Biden as a commander in chief leading 
     from behind in addressing Ukraine's needs. ``We should send 
     more lethal aid to Ukraine which I voted against last week' 
     is making my brain melt,'' tweeted Sen. Brian Schatz (D-
     Hawaii).
       The Russian invasion of Ukraine has highlighted divisions 
     in the Republican Party on U.S. involvement overseas and the 
     standing of the NATO alliance. For decades, during the 
     presidencies of Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush and George W. 
     Bush, the GOP embraced a hawkish view, with robust military 
     spending and certainty about coming to the aid of allies.
       President Donald Trump's ``America First'' outlook and 
     efforts to undermine NATO, including questioning why the 
     military alliance even existed, secured a foothold in the 
     GOP, reflected in the response of Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene 
     (R-Ga.) to Ukraine. In a video Wednesday, Greene blamed both 
     Russia and Ukraine, and warned against U.S. intervention. 
     Biden has said repeatedly that he would not send U.S. troops 
     to fight.
       Potential 2024 presidential candidates such as Scott have 
     been highly critical of Biden, who also announced Wednesday 
     that the Pentagon was sending nearly $1 billion in military 
     equipment to Ukraine, including 800 Stinger antiaircraft 
     systems, 100 drones, 25,000 helmets and more than 20 million 
     rounds of small-arms ammunition and grenade launcher and 
     mortar rounds.
       In early February, Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), another 
     possible White House candidate, sent a letter to Secretary of 
     State Antony Blinken suggesting that the United States would 
     be worse off if Ukraine were admitted to NATO, the military 
     alliance of 30 mainly Western countries--including the United 
     States--bound by a mutual defense treaty, and argued that the 
     United States should instead focus on countering China.
       Hawley, who voted against the spending bill with billions 
     for Ukraine, said Wednesday that Biden needs to ``step up'' 
     and send MiG jet fighters and other weapons to Ukraine, 
     accusing the administration of ``dragging its feet.''
       The Pentagon has rebuffed Poland's offer to send MiG 
     fighter jets to Ukraine amid fears of further escalation 
     involving a NATO country.
       In a statement Thursday, Hawley said, ``Aid for Ukraine 
     should not be held hostage to the Democrats' pet projects and 
     I did not support the massive $1.5 trillion omnibus spending 
     bill stuffed with billions in earmarks.''
       Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), a member of the Senate 
     Intelligence Committee who also voted against the spending 
     bill, told MSNBC on Thursday that the United States ``can do 
     more'' for Ukraine.
       ``There were all sorts of particular ways where the 
     administration yesterday said a lot of the right things, but 
     just because the pen was in President Biden's hand yesterday 
     doesn't mean that weapons are in Zelensky's hands today. And 
     at every point we're too slow, and it feels like a huge part 
     of the administration's audience is internal lawyers, and 
     they do these offensive and defensive legal-hairsplitting 
     arguments,'' Sasse said.
       On the Senate floor Thursday, Sasse argued that the 
     spending bill wasn't ``really about Ukrainian aid,'' but a 
     ``whole bunch of schlock.''
       ``Ukrainian aid was a little bit of sugar on the larger 
     medicine of a $1.5 trillion bill that nobody would actually 
     want to go home and to defend to the voters, and to the 
     taxpayers of America, as well thought out,'' he said.
       Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) countered that the only way to 
     deliver aid to Ukraine

[[Page S2072]]

     and massive legislation is through compromise.
       ``Inside every piece of legislation are elements that many 
     of us disagree with,'' Murphy said. ``Inside that budget that 
     you voted against are all sorts of things that I disagree 
     with. But in the end, in order to govern the country, you 
     have to be able to find a path to compromise.''
       Schatz, in an interview with The Washington Post after the 
     exchange between Sasse and Murphy, said the vote in favor of 
     the aid was an ``easy'' one.
       ``It's very simple: If you don't vote for the thing, you're 
     not for the thing,'' Schatz said. ``That is literally our 
     job, to decide whether we are for or against things as a 
     binary question.''
       ``So you don't get to say: `Even though I voted against 
     Ukraine aid, that I'm actually for it, and here's my 
     explanation,' '' Schatz added, arguing that Republicans were 
     trying to have it both ways by maintaining their fidelity to 
     Trump--who has praised Russian President Vladimir Putin--and 
     become ``Zelensky fans'' at the same time.
       ``They voted to exonerate Trump for this specific reason, 
     which was to withhold aid from Zelensky, and here they are 
     again, opposing aid to Zelensky,'' Schatz said. ``So now 
     they're doing it twice. They're still acting as if they're 
     defenders of Western-style democracy.''
       The day before voting against the bill, Sen. Tom Cotton (R-
     Ark.), another possible presidential candidate, posted on 
     Twitter about the need to come to Ukraine's aid. ``Helping 
     Ukraine defend itself against a ruthless dictator is in our 
     best interest,'' he tweeted.
       Sen. Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.) tweeted a clip declaring the 
     importance of assisting Ukraine. ``It's not much of a 
     deterrent when the assistance you provide comes after the 
     invasion,'' he wrote. ``We need to have President Zelensky's 
     back and expedite aid to Ukraine.''
       Hours later, Cramer voted against the spending bill. Sen. 
     John Neely Kennedy (R-La.) tweeted a clip the day he voted 
     against the bill of him speaking to the need to give Ukraine 
     more aircraft.
       ``The Ukrainian people and President Zelensky are fighting 
     well above their weight, but they need planes,'' he said on 
     Fox News. ``He made that very clear to us on the phone 
     Saturday.''
       ``Give the man his planes,'' Kennedy added.
       Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah), the GOP's 2012 presidential 
     nominee, was widely mocked when he called Russia the ``number 
     one geopolitical foe'' during a debate with President Barack 
     Obama, a remark that in hindsight seems prescient.
       Romney, like other Republicans, has pressed Biden to send 
     more aid to Ukraine. He also voted against the spending bill 
     with billions for the country. Romney said that while he 
     ``strongly'' supports providing aid to Ukrainians, he 
     ``ultimately could not support the rest of this bloated 
     spending bill for the aforementioned reasons.''
       ``Forcing us to swallow the bad to get the good is 
     concerning, unsustainable, and no way to govern over the long 
     term,'' he said.
       In a statement to The Post Thursday, Romney added that he 
     has ``and will strongly support aid for Ukraine'' and that he 
     ``called for a stand-alone bill to get a vote on Monday, four 
     days sooner than the omnibus did.''
       Romney and Sen. Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) are separately leading 
     an effort with 40 of their Senate GOP colleagues to urge 
     Biden to work with Poland and other NATO allies to expedite 
     the transfer of aircraft and air-defense systems to Ukraine. 
     Of those 40 Republicans, 25 voted against the aid package.
       While increasing domestic spending and keeping the 
     government open, the sweeping spending bill also increased 
     spending for the U.S. military by 5.6 percent, totaling $762 
     billion. The bill includes a 2.7 percent pay increase for all 
     active-duty troops. Several Republicans were critical of 
     Ukraine in 2017, when Trump began spreading a conspiracy 
     theory that it was Ukraine--and not Russia--that interfered 
     with the 2016 election. Two years later, Democrats accused 
     Trump of leveraging military assistance and an Oval Office 
     meeting with Zelensky in exchange for investigations of Biden 
     and his son Hunter Biden, and the debunked theory alleging 
     Ukrainian interference in the election.
       The House impeached Trump; the Senate acquitted him on 
     charges that he abused the powers of his office and 
     obstructed Congress. All the Senate Republicans except Romney 
     voted for acquittal.
       Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) told The Post on Thursday that 
     Republican lawmakers arguing for more aid for Ukraine days 
     after voting against a bill to provide assistance is ``the 
     height of hypocrisy.''
       ``Some of them will find every way they can to criticize 
     Joe Biden,'' Hirono said. ``And I think it's more than ironic 
     that the president that they continue to support withheld aid 
     to Ukraine for political purposes.''
       As several of these Republicans who voted against the bill 
     criticized Biden, one Republican pointed to the disconnect.
       Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), who voted for the bill, 
     advised his party to stop sending ``mixed messages'' and 
     lamented that the spending bill with nearly $14 billion for 
     Ukraine didn't pass the Senate 100-0, according to Politico.
       And on Thursday, Zelensky's chief of staff, Andriy Yermak, 
     tweeted that the was ``grateful'' to the United States, which 
     he described as Ukraine's ``reliable partner.'' ``[Biden] 
     does more for [Ukraine] than any of his predecessors,'' 
     Yermak tweeted.

  Mr. CASEY. Here is the subheadline:

       Thirty-one Senate Republicans voted last week against the 
     $1.5 trillion spending bill to fund the government, increase 
     U.S. defense spending and provide humanitarian and military 
     assistance to Ukraine. In recent days, many of them have 
     clamored for more weapons and aid.

  And it goes on from there, and I am not going to read all of it, 
obviously, but it chronicles the hypocrisy that we just heard here 
today and that we have heard for days now and weeks now, criticizing 
the President when they voted against all the money--so all the money 
from the $13.6 billion that will go to pay for the Javelin missiles 
that are taking out Russian tanks every day and have for weeks--every 
penny of that out of the $13.6. You could probably cut it in half in 
terms of what the military assistance will be.
  So let's say, for sake of argument, probably half of that, $6 or $7 
billion, but whatever the exact number is, that money is going to help 
pay for a lot more Javelin missiles that have been so effective. The 
Stinger systems that they have used, the antiaircraft systems, they are 
all going to be paid for. The ammunition and the body armor and all of 
the other assistance that we are providing is going to be made possible 
because most of the Senate--50 Democrats and just 19 Republicans, but 
we are grateful for their support--voted for the money.
  So if you have a criticism about the administration's policy, you are 
certainly entitled to criticize the administration, but I think you 
lose your right to criticize the administration on military assistance 
and what we are doing or not doing on military assistance when you just 
voted against all the money--all the money. And yet they do it over and 
over again, as if no one is watching.
  Well, I think the American people get it, and I think they know the 
difference between someone who can justifiably criticize any 
administration on foreign policy or defense policy or anything else. 
But I think you should admit on the record that you didn't vote for the 
money. Don't throw sand in the eyes of the people. Admit on the record 
that you didn't vote for the money, and then lodge your criticism. But, 
of course, he didn't do that and so many who voted the wrong way.
  Now, the Washington Post also notes in this article that, obviously, 
it was a spending bill that will allow us to fund the government. We 
could talk about that, whether you support funding the government. But 
here is a point that was made in the article that I think a lot of 
people may have missed: It is that this funding bill also paid for a 
pay increase for our troops.
  U.S. servicemembers got a pay increase in this bill, and yet you 
would never know that by listening to some of the folks who voted the 
wrong way on the bill. You would think that that wasn't part of this 
legislation.
  So I think a lot of Americans probably expect that when you are 
making an argument against an administration, you have the right to do 
that, but I think it would be a lot more truthful if you were clear 
about where you voted on the biggest Ukraine spending measure in recent 
history, likely not just the biggest ever for Ukraine but the biggest 
ever for a lot of countries that we help.
  So I hope that people across this Chamber and across the country will 
make note of that contradiction, because when you voted against those 
dollars for Ukraine, you were voting against not only the people of 
Ukraine and their ability to fight this war and obviously the soldiers 
in the field, but you were voting against that humanitarian support, as 
well, that will provide food and medical care and so much else.
  Now, I am in no way satisfied that we have done enough. We have got 
to do a lot more. We have got to provide, in my judgment, a river, an 
ever-rushing stream of weapons--as many weapons as it takes to defeat 
Vladimir Putin.
  So we are going to have more debates, and Senators will have more 
opportunities to vote the right way when it comes to supporting the 
people of Ukraine. But I think it would be better for the debate if 
folks would mention how they voted, that they voted against the Ukraine 
money, that they voted against the pay raise for the troops, and they 
voted against a lot of other provisions.

[[Page S2073]]

  But to come on to the Senate floor and to criticize the President on 
military assistance, that is the height of hypocrisy.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Iowa is recognized.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. The majority leader is going to come to the floor, and 
I will yield the floor for him when he comes here, but I would like to 
yield the floor without losing the right to the floor.

[Senate Report 117-122]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


                                                     Calendar No. 428
117th Congress        }                          {             Report
                                 SENATE
 2d Session           }                          {            117-122
                                                           
_______________________________________________________________________


 
                      SATELLITE CYBERSECURITY ACT

                               __________

                              R E P O R T

                                 of the

                   COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND

                          GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

                          UNITED STATES SENATE

                              to accompany

                                S. 3511

               TO REQUIRE A REPORT ON FEDERAL SUPPORT TO
               THE CYBERSECURITY OF COMMERCIAL SATELLITE
                    SYSTEMS, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

		[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]

		              
                 June 21, 2022.--Ordered to be printed
                 		
                 		
                 	       __________	
                 
		    U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE

29-010 			    WASHINGTON : 2022                 
                 
                 
                 
        COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

                   GARY C. PETERS, Michigan, Chairman
THOMAS R. CARPER, Delaware           ROB PORTMAN, Ohio
MAGGIE HASSAN, New Hampshire         RON JOHNSON, Wisconsin
KYRSTEN SINEMA, Arizona              RAND PAUL, Kentucky
JACKY ROSEN, Nevada                  JAMES LANKFORD, Oklahoma
ALEX PADILLA, California             MITT ROMNEY, Utah
JON OSSOFF, Georgia                  RICK SCOTT, Florida
                                     JOSH HAWLEY, Missouri

                   David M. Weinberg, Staff Director
                    Zachary I. Schram, Chief Counsel
         Christopher J. Mulkins, Director of Homeland Security
         Jeffrey D. Rothblum, Senior Professional Staff Member
                Pamela Thiessen, Minority Staff Director
            Sam J. Mulopulos, Minority Deputy Staff Director
       Cara G. Mumford, Minority Director of Governmental Affairs
              William H.W. McKenna, Minority Chief Counsel
                     Laura W. Kilbride, Chief Clerk



                                                     Calendar No. 428
117th Congress        }                          {             Report
                                 SENATE
 2d Session           }                          {            117-122

======================================================================


                      SATELLITE CYBERSECURITY ACT

                                _______
                                

                 June 21, 2022.--Ordered to be printed

                                _______
                                

 Mr. Peters, from the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
                    Affairs, submitted the following

                              R E P O R T

                         [To accompany S. 3511]

      [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

    The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs, to which was referred the bill (S. 3511) to require a 
report on Federal support to the cybersecurity of commercial 
satellite systems, and for other purposes, having considered 
the same, reports favorably thereon with an amendment (in the 
nature of a substitute) and recommends that the bill, as 
amended, do pass.

                                CONTENTS

                                                                   Page
  I. Purpose and Summary..............................................1
 II. Background and Need for the Legislation..........................2
III. Legislative History..............................................4
 IV. Section-by-Section Analysis of the Bill, as Reported.............4
  V. Evaluation of Regulatory Impact..................................5
 VI. Congressional Budget Office Cost Estimate........................6
VII. Changes in Existing Law Made by the Bill, as Reported............7

                         I. PURPOSE AND SUMMARY

    S. 3511, the Satellite Cybersecurity Act, requires the 
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) to 
develop a publicly available online clearinghouse of 
cybersecurity resources, recommendations, and other appropriate 
materials specific to commercial satellite systems (CSS) owners 
and operators, including materials tailored for small 
businesses. The bill also requires CISA to consolidate 
voluntary cybersecurity recommendations, including 
recommendations collected from external sources, such as public 
and private subject matter experts, designed to assist in the 
development, maintenance, and operation of CSS, and for these 
recommendations to be included in the clearinghouse. In 
implementing the bill, the bill also requires CISA to carry out 
the implementation as a public-private partnership to the 
greatest extent practicable, to coordinate with the heads of 
appropriate federal agencies, and to consult with entities 
outside the federal government with expertise in CSS or 
cybersecurity of CSS including private, consensus organizations 
that develop relevant standards.
    Additionally, S. 3511 requires the Comptroller General of 
the United States, in consultation with other federal agencies, 
to study and provide a report to Congress on the effectiveness 
of efforts of the federal government to improve the 
cybersecurity of CSS and any resources made available by 
agencies to support the cybersecurity of CSS. The bill requires 
the report to detail interdependence of critical infrastructure 
and CSS, the extent to which threats to CSS are part of 
critical infrastructure risk analyses and protection plans, the 
extent to which federal agencies rely on CSS, and risks posed 
by foreign ownership or foreign-located CSS physical 
infrastructure.

              II. BACKGROUND AND NEED FOR THE LEGISLATION

    CSS are an essential piece of our economy. The Presidential 
Memorandum on Space Policy Directive 5 states that space 
systems are integral to the operation of numerous critical 
infrastructure sectors and functions, including global 
communications; position, navigation, and timing; weather 
monitoring; and ``multiple vital national security 
applications.''\1\ Former Acting CISA Director Brandon Wales 
stated on May 13, 2021 that ``secure and resilient space-based 
assets are critical to our economy, prosperity, and our 
national security.''\2\ The National Institute of Standards and 
Technology also notes that CSS are critical to protect, as 
``[t]he commercial uses of space for research and development, 
material sciences, communication, and sensing are growing in 
size, scale, and importance for the future of the U.S. 
economy.''\3\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \1\President Donald Trump, Memorandum on Space Policy Directive-5 
Cybersecurity Principles for Space Systems (Sep. 4, 2020) (https://
trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/presidential-actions/memorandum-space-
policy-directive-5-cybersecurity-principles-space-systems/).
    \2\Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency, CISA Launches a 
Space Systems Critical Infrastructure Working Group (May 13, 2021) 
(https://www.cisa.gov/news/2021/05/13/cisa-launches-space-systems-
critical-infrastructure-working-group).
    \3\National Institute of Standards and Technology, Introduction to 
Cybersecurity for Commercial Satellite Operations (2nd Draft) (NISTIR 
8270) (Feb. 25, 2022) (https://csrc.nist.gov/
publications/detail/nistir/8270/draft).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Despite the critical importance of these systems, 
cybersecurity vulnerabilities in CSS are growing. On November 
20, 2021, Gen. David Thompson of U.S. Space Force stated: ``the 
threats [to satellite systems] are really growing and expanding 
every single day. And it's really an evolution of activity 
that's been happening for a long time.''\4\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \4\A Shadow War in Space is Heating up Fast, The Washington Post 
(Nov. 30, 2021) (https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2021/11/30/
space-race-china-david-thompson/).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Attacks against CSS have also grown over the recent years. 
Between 2007 and 2008, two American satellites used by the U.S. 
Geological Survey and NASA to monitor climate and terrain were 
compromised multiple times.\5\ In 2014, U.S. officials blamed 
China for a cyberattack that forced the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to cut off public access to 
imagery data from a satellite network used for weather 
forecasting.\6\ Most recently, on February 24, 2022, at the 
onset of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the KA-SAT 
communication satellite network, owned by the U.S.-based 
company Viasat, Inc., was disrupted and caused communication 
and internet outages within Ukraine, significantly degrading 
Ukrainian defense forces' command and control, and causing 
large scale disruption to a German power company's wind 
turbines.\7\ On March 17, 2022, the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation (FBI) and CISA released a joint advisory further 
bringing attention to the cybersecurity threats facing CSS.\8\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \5\For Hackers, Space is the Final Frontier, Vox (July 29, 2021) 
(https://www.vox.com/recode/22598437/spacex-hackers-cyberattack-space-
force).
    \6\Id.
    \7\Satellite Outage Caused ``Huge Loss in Communications'' at War's 
Outset--Ukrainian Official, Reuters (Mar. 15, 2022) (https://
www.reuters.com/world/satellite-outage-caused-huge-loss-communications-
wars-outset-ukrainian-official-2022 03 15/); Satellite Outage Knocks 
Out Thousands of Enercon's Wind Turbines, Reuters (Feb. 28, 2022) 
(https://www.reuters.com/business/
energy/satellite-outage-knocks-out-control-enercon-wind-turbines-2022-
02-28/).
    \8\Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency and Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, Strengthening Cybersecurity of SATCOM Network 
Providers and Customers (Mar. 17, 2022) (https://www.cisa.gov/uscert/
sites/default/files/publications/AA22-
076_Strengthening_Cybersecurity_of_SATCOM_Network_Providers_and_Customer
s.pdf).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    While extensive federal and private sector research has led 
to many cybersecurity standards and resources focused on 
traditional enterprise information technology, there is a 
relative lack of easily accessible, consolidated resources 
focused specifically on securing CSS.\9\ The lack of these 
resources is of particular concern given the increase in new 
satellite businesses over the past decade, in part due to the 
drastic decrease in costs to launch satellites.\10\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \9\Examples of well-established and widely used enterprise 
information technology standards include the National Institute of 
Standard and Technology's (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework and the 
International Organization for Standardization's 27000 family of 
Standards.
    \10\To Cheaply Go: How Falling Launch Costs Fueled a Thriving 
Economy in Orbit, NBC News (Apr. 8, 2022) (https://www.nbcnews.com/
science/space/space-launch-costs-growing-business-
industry-rcna23488).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Small businesses owning and operating satellites have 
drastically expanded in the past decade as launch prices have 
dropped.\11\ While NASA's Space Shuttle would cost $30,000 per 
pound to put a satellite into low-earth orbit, private 
companies have driven down this cost dramatically and increased 
the frequency of launches.\12\ For example, SpaceX can now 
launch satellites for under $2,000 per pound and Rocket Lab is 
licensed to launch rockets every 72 hours.\13\ Multiple market 
assessments project aggressive growth of the small satellite 
industry over the next decade.\14\ As more businesses enter 
this market, it is critical that these new satellite owners and 
operators are aware of common satellite cybersecurity 
vulnerabilities and the appropriate mitigations.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    \11\Small Rockets Aim for a Big Market, Smithsonian Magazine (Apr, 
2018) (https://www.smithsonianmag.com/air-space-magazine/milestone-
180968351/); To Cheaply Go: How Falling Launch Costs Fueled a Thriving 
Economy in Orbit, NBC News (Apr. 8, 2022) (https://www.nbcnews.com/
science/space/space-launch-costs-growing-business-industry-rcna23488).
    \12\Id.
    \13\Id.
    \14\Allied Market Research, Small Satellite Market Statistics 2030 
(https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/small-satellite-market) (accessed 
May 26, 2022); The Small Satellite Market is Projected to Grow From USD 
3.1 billion in 2021 to USD 7.4 billion by 2026, at a CAGR of 19.4%, 
GlobeNewswwire (Feb. 28, 2022) (https://www.globenewswire.com/news-
release/2022/02/28/2393562/0/en/The-small-satellite-market-is-
projected-to-grow-from-USD-3-1-
billion-in-2021-to-USD-7-4-billion-by-2026-at-a-CAGR-of-19-4.html).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Historic and recent attacks against satellites, and the 
severe consequences of a significant attack against satellite 
systems, makes clear the need for commercial satellite 
cybersecurity. This bill aims to help address this need by 
requiring CISA to consolidate voluntary cybersecurity 
resources, recommendations, and other materials for large and 
small businesses regarding how to secure CSS. To distribute 
these materials efficiently, this bill requires CISA to create 
a clearinghouse, and to curate up-to-date satellite 
cybersecurity information from private industry and federal 
government experts. This bill also requires the Comptroller 
General of the United States to study how the federal 
government supports CSS owners and operators, and the degree to 
which critical infrastructure and the government relies on CSS 
today. The study will also examine how the government uses CSS 
that are owned or operated by foreign entities.
    While historically there has been a lack of federal 
resources dedicated to improving the cybersecurity of CSS, 
CISA's Space Systems Critical Infrastructure Working Group, 
which the agency launched in May 2021, seeks to address this 
risk by working with the private sector in a public-private 
partnership to develop cybersecurity resources for CSS owners 
and operators. This legislation would build upon that work.

                        III. LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

    Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) introduced S. 3511, the 
Satellite Cybersecurity Act, on January 13, 2022, with Senator 
John Cornyn (R-TX). The bill was referred to the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
    The Committee considered S. 3511 at a business meeting on 
March 30, 2022. During the business meeting, a substitute 
amendment, as modified, was offered by Senator Peters. The 
Peters substitute amendment, as modified, extended the original 
reporting requirement for the study from the Comptroller 
General from one year to two years; refined the Comptroller 
General's agency consultation and coordination requirement; and 
emphasized the use of a public-private partnership in the 
implementation of this act. The Peters substitute amendment, as 
modified, was adopted by voice vote en bloc with Senators 
Peters, Carper, Hassan, Sinema, Rosen, Padilla, Ossoff, Paul, 
Lankford, Romney, Scott, and Hawley present.
    Senator Ossoff offered an amendment which adds additional 
requirements to the Comptroller General study and the 
consolidated recommendations to evaluate the risks associated 
with foreign ownership and foreign location of CSS equipment. 
The Ossoff amendment was adopted by voice vote en bloc with 
Senators Peters, Carper, Hassan, Sinema, Rosen, Padilla, 
Ossoff, Paul, Lankford, Romney, Scott, and Hawley present.
    The Committee ordered the bill, as amended, to be reported 
favorably by voice vote en bloc. Senators present for the vote 
were: Peters, Carper, Hassan, Sinema, Rosen, Padilla, Ossoff, 
Paul, Lankford, Romney, Scott, and Hawley.
    Consistent with Committee Rule 3(G), the Committee reports 
the bill with a technical amendment by mutual agreement of the 
Chairman and Ranking Member.

        IV. SECTION-BY-SECTION ANALYSIS OF THE BILL, AS REPORTED

Section 1. Short title

    This section designates the name of the bill as the 
``Satellite Cybersecurity Act.''

Section 2. Definitions

    This section defines the terms ``commercial satellite 
system,'' critical infrastructure,'' ``cybersecurity risk,'' 
and ``cybersecurity threat.''

Section 3. Report on commercial satellite cyber security

    This section requires a study to be performed by the 
Comptroller General of the United States concerning the 
cybersecurity of commercial satellite systems, including the 
examination of federal government and critical infrastructure 
reliance on these systems, existing government efforts to 
support secure system development and operations, and the 
identification of risks associated with foreign ownership of 
commercial satellite system companies or infrastructure. The 
Comptroller General is required to submit a report to Congress 
no later than two years after enactment of this bill, and 
provide a briefing on the status of the study one year after 
enactment.
    In carrying out this section, GAO is required to coordinate 
with the Department of Homeland Security, Department of 
Commerce, Department of Defense, Department of Transportation, 
Federal Communications Commission, National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration, and the National Executive Committee for 
Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing.

Section 4. Responsibilities of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
        Agency

    Subsection (a) defines the terms ``clearinghouse,'' 
``director,'' and ``small business concern.''
    Subsection (b) establishes the Commercial Satellite 
Cybersecurity Clearinghouse to be developed by the CISA 
Director. The clearinghouse is to be publicly available and 
offer voluntary commercial satellite systems cybersecurity 
resources and recommendations, including materials aimed at 
assisting small business concerns with the development, 
operation, and maintenance of commercial satellite systems.
    Subsection (c) requires the CISA Director to consolidate 
voluntary cybersecurity recommendations for commercial 
satellite systems. The recommendations will address different 
aspects of CSS development and operations, including protection 
against unauthorized access, physical protection measures, 
supply chain risk management, and mitigations against risks 
posed by foreign entity ownership and maintenance of physical 
infrastructure in foreign countries.
    Subsection (d) requires the CISA Director to carry out the 
implementation of this bill as a public-private partnership, to 
the greatest extent practicable. It also requires CISA to 
coordinate with the heads of appropriate federal agencies and 
consult with non-federal entities developing commercial 
satellite systems or supporting the cybersecurity of commercial 
satellite systems, including private, consensus organizations 
that develop relevant standards.

                   V. EVALUATION OF REGULATORY IMPACT

    Pursuant to the requirements of paragraph 11(b) of rule 
XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee has 
considered the regulatory impact of this bill and determined 
that the bill will have no regulatory impact within the meaning 
of the rules. The Committee agrees with the Congressional 
Budget Office's statement that the bill contains no 
intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the 
Unfunded Mandates Reform Act (UMRA) and would impose no costs 
on state, local, or tribal governments.

             VI. CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE COST ESTIMATE

                                     U.S. Congress,
                               Congressional Budget Office,
                                    Washington, DC, April 19, 2022.
Hon. Gary C. Peters,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, U.S. 
        Senate, Washington, DC.
    Dear Mr. Chairman: The Congressional Budget Office has 
prepared the enclosed cost estimate for S. 3511, the Satellite 
Cybersecurity Act.
    If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be 
pleased to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Aldo 
Prosperi.
            Sincerely,
                                         Phillip L. Swagel,
                                                          Director.
    Enclosure.

    	[GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT]
    

    S. 3511 would require the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
Security Agency (CISA) to disseminate information on cyber 
safety measures to operators of commercial satellites. Under 
the bill, CISA would collect security recommendations from the 
private sector and other federal agencies with expertise in 
satellite operations.
    Using information from CISA about similar information 
sharing efforts, CBO anticipates that the agency would need six 
full-time employees to create and manage an online database 
with cybersecurity resources for satellite operators. CBO 
estimates that staff salaries and technology costs to publish 
safety materials would total $3 million annually. Accounting 
for the time needed to hire new employees and prepare the 
database, CBO estimates that implementing the bill would cost 
$12 million over the 2022-2026 period; such spending would be 
subject to the availability of appropriated funds.
    The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Aldo Prosperi. 
The estimate was reviewed by Leo Lex, Deputy Director of Budget 
Analysis.

       VII. CHANGES IN EXISTING LAW MADE BY THE BILL, AS REPORTED

    This legislation would make no change in existing law, 
within the meaning of clauses (a) and (b) of subparagraph 12 of 
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, because this 
legislation would not repeal or amend any provision of current 
law.

                                  [all]
