[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 9 (Thursday, January 16, 2025)]
[House]
[Pages H191-H202]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        PREVENTING VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN BY ILLEGAL ALIENS ACT

  Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 5, I 
call up the bill (H.R. 30) to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act 
to provide that aliens who have been convicted of or who have committed 
sex offenses or domestic violence are inadmissible and deportable, and 
ask for its immediate consideration in the House.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Wied). Pursuant to House Resolution 5, 
the bill is considered read.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 30

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Preventing Violence Against 
     Women by Illegal Aliens Act''.

     SEC. 2. INADMISSIBILITY AND DEPORTABILITY RELATED TO SEX 
                   OFFENSES, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, STALKING, CHILD 
                   ABUSE, OR VIOLATION OF PROTECTION ORDER.

       (a) Inadmissibility.--Section 212(a)(2) of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(J) Sex offenses.--Any alien who has been convicted of, 
     who admits having committed, or who admits committing acts 
     which constitute the essential elements of a sex offense (as 
     such term is defined in section 111(5) of the Adam Walsh 
     Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (34 U.S.C. 
     20911(5))), or a conspiracy to commit such an offense, is 
     inadmissible.
       ``(K) Domestic violence, stalking, child abuse, or 
     violation of protection order.--Any alien who has been 
     convicted of, who admits having committed, or who admits 
     committing acts which constitute the essential elements of--
       ``(i) a crime of domestic violence (as such term is defined 
     in section 237(a)(2)(E));
       ``(ii) a crime of stalking;
       ``(iii) a crime of child abuse, child neglect, or child 
     abandonment; or
       ``(iv) a crime of violating the portion of a protection 
     order (as such term is defined in section 237(a)(2)(E)) that 
     involves protection against credible threats of violence, 
     repeated harassment, or bodily injury to the person or 
     persons for whom the protection order was issued,
     is inadmissible.''.
       (b) Deportability.--Section 237(a)(2) of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(2)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (E)--
       (A) in the heading, by striking ``crimes against children 
     and'' and inserting ``and crimes against children''; and
       (B) in clause (i), by inserting before the period at the 
     end the following ``, and includes any crime that constitutes 
     domestic violence, as such term is defined in section 
     40002(a) of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act 
     of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12291(a)), regardless of whether the 
     jurisdiction receives grant funding under that Act''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(G) Sex offenses.--Any alien who has been convicted of a 
     sex offense (as such term is defined in section 111(5) of the 
     Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (34 U.S.C. 
     20911(5))) or a conspiracy to commit such an offense, is 
     deportable.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill shall be debatable for 1 hour, 
equally divided and controlled by the majority leader and the minority 
leader or their respective designees.
  The gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Lee) and the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Raskin) each will control 30 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Lee).


                             General Leave

  Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and insert extraneous material on H.R. 30.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Florida?
  There was no objection.
  Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 30, the Preventing Violence 
Against Women by Illegal Aliens Act.
  Over the past 4 years, President Biden and border czar Vice President 
Kamala Harris have allowed millions of unvetted illegal aliens into the 
United States. At the same time that they facilitated the collapse of 
our southwest border, President Biden and Vice President Harris 
abandoned any semblance of interior immigration enforcement.
  In a September 2021 memo, the Biden-Harris administration made 
enforcement more difficult for Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
officers. In training materials obtained by the Judiciary Committee and 
published in a staff report last year, DHS failed to answer seemingly 
clear-cut questions such as whether an alien who served a

[[Page H192]]

20-year drug-related prison sentence or an alien who discharged a 
firearm outside of a police station should be priorities for arrest and 
deportation.
  Until the Trump administration can change them, those are the 
training materials required for all of ICE's enforcement personnel 
nationwide. Instead of making clear that ICE officers should carry out 
their duties to remove criminal aliens from American streets, the 
Biden-Harris administration instructed ICE officers to develop a full 
profile of a criminal alien before deciding whether to arrest someone 
who is in the country illegally.
  In the training examples, that included determining whether an 
illegal alien has high blood pressure or is a caregiver. The Biden-
Harris administration's immigration absurdity appears to know no 
bounds.
  In a transcribed interview with the Judiciary Committee, a former top 
ICE official admitted that the Biden-Harris administration's policies 
have made immigration enforcement more dangerous for ICE officers, more 
difficult to carry out, and less efficient overall.
  The ICE official even acknowledged that because of the border crisis, 
fewer ICE officers are available to track down public safety and 
national security threats because they are left to do border 
administration-related tasks.
  The consequences of these policies are not hypotheticals or simply 
numbers. They are a reality for families across the country, and they 
are emblematic of the Biden-Harris administration's war on women.
  Last September, the Judiciary Committee heard from three mothers 
whose daughters were brutally assaulted and murdered by illegal aliens 
welcomed into the country by President Biden and Vice President Kamala 
Harris.
  Tammy Nobles recounted how Joe Biden and Kamala Harris released into 
the country the MS-13 gang member who went on to murder and sexually 
assault her daughter, Kayla Hamilton. The killer later admitted to four 
additional murders and two additional rapes.
  Patty Morin told how an illegal alien raped and strangled her 
daughter, Rachel, and then stuffed her body into a drainpipe. The 
alleged murderer entered the country through border czar Kamala Harris' 
wide-open southwest border.
  Alexis Nungaray spoke about how Joe Biden and Kamala Harris released 
at the border the two illegal aliens who went on to viciously assault 
and murder her 12-year-old daughter, Jocelyn. Ms. Nungaray said she had 
no clothing from the waist down. Her hands and her ankles were tied, 
and she was thrown under the bridge in the water like she was nothing 
but garbage.
  Victim advocate April Aguirre also told the tragic story of 11-year-
old Maria Gonzalez. The Biden-Harris administration released her 
alleged murderer into the United States. Just 7 months later, the 
illegal alien assaulted and killed Maria, wrapped her body in a trash 
bag, and stuffed her in a laundry basket that he shoved underneath his 
bed.
  These are not isolated incidents. In February 2024, an illegal alien 
was arrested in Alabama for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl who 
could not consent to the intercourse, as she was physically helpless or 
mentally incapacitated.

  In April 2024, an illegal alien was arrested in Indiana for allegedly 
breaking into a Michigan mobile home park and sexually assaulting two 
young girls.
  In May 2024, authorities arrested a 20-year-old illegal alien for 
allegedly snatching an 11-year-old girl off the street in front of her 
Lake Worth, Florida, home and sexually assaulting her. According to 
local officials, the Guatemalan national crossed the U.S.-Mexico border 
in early January 2024, made his way to Florida shortly thereafter, and 
does not have an immigration court date until 2027.
  Just earlier this month, ICE arrested a Dominican national who had 
been charged with assault to rape, kidnapping, and indecent assault. 
The illegal alien crossed the border in January 2023 and was placed on 
alternatives to detention.
  That is Joe Biden and Kamala Harris' immigration legacy: more 
unvetted aliens released into American communities, more criminal 
aliens on American streets, and more Americans endangered by radical, 
reckless policies. Thankfully, the American people have voted to end 
this nightmare.
  The Preventing Violence Against Women by Illegal Aliens Act is just 
one of many bills Republicans have proposed that will help close 
immigration loopholes, reverse the disastrous policies of the Biden-
Harris administration, and implement President Trump's immigration 
enforcement agenda.
  The Preventing Violence Against Women by Illegal Aliens Act makes 
crystal clear that illegal aliens who commit sex offenses are 
inadmissible to and removable from the United States. The bill also 
fixes a discrepancy in current law by creating a ground of 
inadmissibility for domestic violence to mirror the existing ground of 
removability for the same offenses.
  In addition, H.R. 30 expands the current ground of removability for 
domestic violence by cross-referencing an existing statutory definition 
for sex offenses. Although many aliens can already be found 
inadmissible to or removable from the United States for certain sex 
offenses and domestic violence offenses, this bill expands and 
clarifies the conduct for which an alien can be found removable from 
the country.
  The time is now to take seriously the danger of criminal aliens in 
the United States. Anything that makes it easier for adjudicators and 
officials to ensure a criminal alien's arrest and removal should 
receive overwhelming bipartisan support, particularly when it comes to 
sex offenses and domestic violence.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 30, the Preventing 
Violence Against Women by Illegal Aliens Act, and I reserve the balance 
of my time.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. I 
am delighted to be here with you and with the gentlewoman from Florida.
  Mr. Speaker, America's immigration laws are like an admissions policy 
for the country: How do you get into America, who gets kicked out of 
America, and for what reasons. Our immigration laws today will get you 
kicked out, deported from the country if you commit rape, other sex 
offenses, domestic violence, or, indeed, any other crime of violence. 
That is the law today. You are convicted, you are deported, you are 
out. That has been the law for decades in America.

                              {time}  0930

  Our immigration law establishes a similar policy on the way in. It 
provides that anyone seeking admission to America who has committed a 
violent sex offense or a crime of domestic violence is inadmissible to 
our country.
  Since the 1930s, case law has made it perfectly clear that rape, 
domestic violence, and sexual battery are all ``crimes involving moral 
turpitude,'' which make the perpetrator inadmissible to America. That 
has been the law in our country for decades.
  What does H.R. 30 add? If committing a sexual assault or domestic 
violence will already render you deportable and inadmissible under our 
laws, why do we need to create another section of the law doing the 
same thing? Is it necessary, or is it redundant?
  Of course, its being redundant or unnecessary may not be a sufficient 
reason to vote against the bill. After all, I cheerfully admit that 
this body, under the stewardship of our friends, passes a lot of 
unnecessary and redundant legislation in the House just to send a 
message, as they say. Perhaps this is what our friends set out to do 
today, to pass another simple messaging bill.
  The complication today is this: The way this messaging bill is 
actually written will create big problems for many, many victims of 
domestic violence. That is why more than 200 national, State, and local 
groups advocating for the victims of rape and the survivors of domestic 
violence, the people across America we should be listening to today, 
strongly oppose the bill our colleagues have brought forward.
  The National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence sent us a 
letter urging us to reject H.R. 30. I urge every single Member of 
Congress to read this letter carefully before you vote on this bill.
  The groups fighting domestic violence warn that this legislation 
``can ultimately have devastating consequences for immigrant victims of 
domestic violence.''

[[Page H193]]

  The signers of this letter include a range of national groups like 
the YWCA, National Council of Jewish Women, AFL-CIO, Coalition of Labor 
Union Women, and dozens of State and local groups, like the California 
Partnership to End Domestic Violence, Colorado Coalition Against Sexual 
Assault, Maryland Coalition Against Sexual Assault, Mississippi 
Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Catholic Charities in Omaha, 
Nebraska, and dozens and dozens more from States across the country. 
Please read this letter.
  These are groups working to change the law and culture to stop rape 
and domestic violence in our country, but they see that this poorly 
drafted legislation would end up harming untold numbers of victims of 
domestic violence themselves, the putative beneficiaries of the act.
  Here is why: When it comes to crimes involving moral turpitude, there 
are exceptions in the law to protect domestic violence victims who 
often get swept up in the very laws designed to protect them.
  Anyone who has ever been a prosecutor or a public defender in this 
Chamber knows that it is common for abusers to accuse their victims of 
domestic violence themselves and assault, sometimes truthfully, often 
falsely. In any event, it is well known that the victims get arrested, 
prosecuted, and sometimes even convicted simply for defending 
themselves and fighting back against their abusers and rapists.
  Here is a real-life example drawn from the domestic violence survivor 
advocacy groups opposing their legislation. A young woman on a student 
visa here was trapped in an abusive relationship, and her estranged 
boyfriend tried to rape her. She fought back, biting his ear and 
drawing blood.
  She then called the police to report the rape, but upon seeing the 
boyfriend's injury, the officers also arrested the female victim, whose 
language skills kept her from comprehensively explaining what had 
happened at that point. She spent several days in jail and was 
ultimately convicted of misdemeanor domestic violence, but the judge 
sentenced her to time served once she got a lawyer and translation 
services, which allowed the context of the violent abuse that she had 
been enduring to become made plain to the police and the court.
  Because of exceptions that exist in our laws today, this woman was 
not deemed inadmissible to America because her simple assault charge 
carried less than a 6-month penalty. Under the new bill, which would 
establish inadmissibility without any waivers or exceptions at all for 
victims, she would clearly have to be deemed inadmissible to America. 
No exceptions would exist any longer for domestic violence victims who 
have committed minor crimes in the context of resisting their violent 
abuse.
  This means that the victim in this case, who is legally in the United 
States on a student visa while she attends college, would be barred 
permanently from obtaining a green card or any new immigration status 
simply because she was a victim of an attempted rape who fought back 
against her attacker. With no ability ever to adjust her status under 
the law, she would be deported and kicked out of our country 
permanently.
  Some might say that this is the price she should rightly pay for 
biting or hitting back at her violent abuser, but do we really want to 
say that we would not want our daughters, sisters, or mothers to do the 
same in that situation?
  Should we really compound the horrors of domestic violence and 
assaults with a harsh immigration penalty on victims? Do we want to 
give domestic abusers more power over their victims by giving them more 
opportunities to file charges, true or false, against their victims to 
keep them from reporting their abuse to authorities?
  It seems we live in a time, Mr. Speaker, when it is very easy to 
forgive sexual abusers, assailants, rapists, and sexual harassers who 
have a lot of power and wealth in society but very hard to forgive 
their victims for fighting back.
  Look what is going on across the hallway. Secretary of Defense 
nominee Pete Hegseth has been credibly accused of sexually assaulting a 
woman at a conference in 2017 and entered into a major private 
financial settlement over the charges, and there are people planning to 
vote for this legislation today who also support his nomination.

  Education Secretary nominee Linda McMahon and her husband were 
recently sued for failing to act on credible allegations of sexual 
abuse within the World Wrestling Entertainment organization.
  Finally, of course, the President-elect's initial pick for Attorney 
General, Matt Gaetz, faces numerous allegations of sex trafficking a 
minor and statutory rape.
  There are civil adjudications of sexual abuse going to the very top 
of the new administration. The law, as it stands today and as we have 
had it for decades, provides for waivers to protect the immigration 
status of victims of domestic violence who are charged with fighting 
back against their abuser.
  While the proposed bill would retain waivers for victims in the 
deportability context, it would not allow for waivers or exceptions in 
the inadmissibility context. I don't know why this asymmetry and 
discordance were written into this legislation, whether it was 
deliberate or just accidental, but the upshot is that the entire 
national movement working to arrest and reduce domestic violence in 
America is now opposing this bill that claims to be in support of the 
victims of domestic violence.
  We note another serious problem with the bill, which makes it 
backfire again against victims. It would significantly expand the 
definition of ``domestic violence'' to include the statutory Violence 
Against Women Act definition that is used for the civil context of 
grants and funding. This much broader definition was never designed to 
be used in criminal law. In fact, the definition explicitly says that 
it covers conduct ``that may or may not constitute criminal behavior.''
  The definition of domestic violence under existing Federal criminal 
law, which is currently also used in immigration law, focuses on the 
element, Mr. Speaker, of physical force, but the broader VAWA-based 
definition appropriately fitted for grant and funding purposes sweeps 
in a broad range of behaviors, including verbal, psychological, 
economic, or technological abuse.
  Once again, in the inadmissibility context, this transposition can 
have severe consequences. Imagine a domestic violence victim covered by 
DACA who flees her abuser and removes half of the money from their 
joint bank account, enough to get a train or bus ticket to get away. 
Imagine the abuser calls the police and claims that she stole money 
from him and committed a theft. By merely admitting to the fact that 
she took funds out of their bank account, the victim could end up being 
deemed inadmissible and then removed from America.
  Remember, the new inadmissibility grounds created by this bill do not 
require a conviction but a mere admission of the underlying facts.
  The point is clear: If our goal is to prevent violence against women 
by illegal aliens, as the bill's title says, our current criminal and 
immigration laws already do that. We have strict punishments in place 
for anyone who commits such crimes, including deportation and 
inadmissibility for foreign nationals.
  This bill would only make the immigration laws much harsher on the 
victims of domestic violence, sexual battery, and rape, which is the 
opposite of what we should be doing.
  America, when it lives up to its ideals, as Tom Paine said, will 
become an asylum to humanity, not an insane asylum, mind you, but a 
place of refuge for people seeking freedom from religious, political, 
and economic oppression, and also, I might add, the kind of private 
gender violence that creates oppression and tyranny in the home.
  Two centuries later, Ronald Reagan echoed the sentiment, reminding us 
that America was a ``shining city upon a hill,'' a refuge ``for all the 
Pilgrims from all the lost places who are hurtling through the 
darkness, toward home.''
  Last year, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Violence Against 
Women Act, and we must continue our work to oppose the tyranny of 
domestic violence over women in our country, but this legislation would 
set back our efforts to protect survivors and to stop abuse.

[[Page H194]]

  Mr. Speaker, I ask the majority to reconsider this legislation and 
for my colleagues to join us in opposing it.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from North Carolina (Mr. Harris).
  Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of 
H.R. 30, the Preventing Violence Against Women by Illegal Aliens Act.
  Mr. Speaker, common sense dictates that if an illegal alien is in our 
country and commits a sex offense or domestic violence, they should be 
deported immediately. Common sense dictates that if an alien is at the 
border and has committed these kinds of egregious crimes in their past, 
they should not be allowed to take one step onto American soil.

  Anything short of this standard is a complete and utter failure to 
protect American women and girls. This bill before us today ensures 
just that.
  As Republicans, we have been called to clean up Biden's border 
crisis, and that means not only deporting illegal alien sex offenders 
and abusers, but we must stop them from coming into our country in the 
first place.
  It is common sense that the legislation before us today codifies this 
standard. The Preventing Violence Against Women by Illegal Aliens Act 
shouldn't be controversial. Sadly, as we saw last week with the Laken 
Riley Act, many of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle will 
use any excuse to oppose commonsense border security.
  I stand on behalf of my constituents in North Carolina's Eighth 
Congressional District to urge my colleagues to support this crucial 
initiative in our fight to keep our citizens safe.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Washington (Ms. Jayapal).
  Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, here we are, once again, with my Republican 
colleagues bringing a bill to the floor that does absolutely nothing to 
address the needs of the American people.
  My Republican colleagues made lots of campaign promises to lower 
costs for everyday Americans, but not a single bill so far has done 
anything like that. Instead, this week appears to be a week where they 
say they are protecting women, yet their actions tell a different 
story.
  Today, we are discussing a bill that takes the Violence Against Women 
Act, a bill meant to protect victims of domestic violence, and 
weaponizes it against domestic violence victims.

                              {time}  0945

  Mr. Speaker, that is exactly why 200 local and national advocacy 
organizations for survivors of domestic violence from across the 
country with deep expertise in this area have come out so strongly to 
oppose this bill.
  I am talking about the National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic 
Violence, the National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, the National 
Network to End Domestic Violence, the Asian Pacific Institute on 
Gender-Based Violence, and groups that serve domestic violence 
survivors in more than 40 States across the country.
  Let me be very clear once again. Under our current laws, those who 
are convicted or admit to domestic violence or crimes listed in this 
bill are already deportable and inadmissible to the country. There is 
actually no gap in the law that needs to be fixed.
  Instead, in a perverse move, this bill would make it easier to label 
survivors of domestic violence as perpetrators to make them removable 
from the country and eliminate existing legal safeguards that protect 
survivors. Once again, this is a bill that widens the highway to Donald 
Trump's mass deportation plans.
  I want to talk through an example. The police show up to a domestic 
violence call. The victim was attacked by her abuser, and she fought 
back in self-defense. Maybe the abuser has some scratches on his face.
  It is common practice for the police to arrest both parties in that 
situation when responding to a domestic violence incident. The police 
write a report, describing how the victim hit her abuser in self-
defense.
  Under this bill, that is an admission constituting the elements of 
domestic violence, and this woman is now inadmissible and subject to 
deportation. Even if she is never charged, even if a judge later rules 
that she did not commit any crime, that so-called admission in the 
police report that she responded in self-defense to hit her abuser is 
enough to make her inadmissible under this bill.
  Again, that is why more than 200 advocacy organizations for domestic 
violence survivors, deeply ensconced in the material of what happens 
every day across the country far too often, are all deeply opposed to 
this legislation. They know that this expansive bill that eliminates 
the existing safeguards for domestic violence survivors will harm those 
exact survivors and create a chilling effect for reporting future 
crimes, empowering abusers to go after immigrant women and children.
  Right now we are only talking about immigrant survivors. Is this bill 
the start of a dangerous road, watering down protections for all 
victims of domestic violence across the country? Who is next?
  The Violence Against Women Act is a landmark piece of legislation, a 
testament to a time when Democrats and Republicans could actually come 
together and legislate on issues of fundamental importance to this 
Nation, despite our differences.
  The initial iteration of VAWA passed the House by voice vote. Can you 
imagine that? It passed by voice vote. It reshaped how we as a country 
talk about gender-based violence and how we treat survivors.
  The Violence Against Women Act recognized that we cannot be serious 
about eliminating violence against women if we are not equally serious 
about eradicating violence against everyone, regardless of immigration 
status.
  There are so many reasons why individuals in domestic violence 
situations are unjustly forced into the criminal legal system. We have 
seen the data. Too often survivors are arrested alongside their abuser, 
and they are charged and even convicted of crimes involving violence 
which later prove to be in self-defense or unjustly charged. This bill 
makes it more likely that we harm the very people we want to protect.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman from Washington.
  Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, here is the cruel irony. In the same week 
that Republicans are putting forth the nomination of a Secretary of 
Defense who won't even say that sexual assault is disqualifying, 
Republicans want to fool you into thinking that they care about 
domestic violence and sexual assault survivors.
  I suppose I shouldn't be surprised. Despite VAWA's bipartisan 
history, we now have to fight tooth and nail to reauthorize it. It was 
Republicans who let the Violence Against Women Act languish and expire 
for 3 years. The leader of the Republican Party is once again a man who 
was found liable for sexual misconduct and bragged about grabbing and 
forcibly kissing women without their consent.
  Last year, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of VAWA's enactment. 
Today, we have to watch our colleagues across the aisle make another 
cheap attempt to divide us and play gotcha politics. We should work 
together to eradicate domestic violence.
  My bill, the WISE Act, would strengthen protections for survivors. I 
wish we could do that here and not this harmful, misleading bill. I 
urge my colleagues to oppose it.
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from over 200 local and 
national domestic violence organizations who oppose this bill.

         National Task Force To End Sexual & Domestic Violence

                                                 January 13, 2025.
       Honorable Members of the House, The undersigned groups that 
     serve and advocate on behalf of victims of domestic violence, 
     sexual assault, dating violence, stalking, and human 
     trafficking, write to voice our opposition to HR 30.
       We oppose this legislation as it would expand the 
     circumstances under which domestic violence, child abuse and 
     neglect, stalking, and sex offenses would constitute grounds 
     of inadmissibility, as well as expand the definition of 
     domestic violence to be considered for inadmissibility or 
     deportability grounds. These measures would negatively impact 
     immigrant survivors of domestic and sexual violence, and fail 
     to alleviate the primary barriers to safety and stability 
     experienced by survivors seeking relief under the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act.
       We are especially troubled that this legislation fails to 
     include waivers that take into

[[Page H195]]

     account the needs of the victim or their family, and that it 
     will limit the discretion that judges can exercise where the 
     equities warrant, including situations where survivors who 
     are inadvertently caught up in the criminal legal system will 
     be harmed.
       Unfortunately, immigrant victims are particularly 
     vulnerable to being arrested and prosecuted for domestic 
     violence if they acted in self-defense or are accused by an 
     abuser of being a primary aggressor. A well-known tactic of 
     abusers to maintain power and control over their victims is 
     to report (and threaten to report) their partner to 
     authorities, including local law enforcement, child 
     protective services, ICE, and others--falsely claiming that 
     their partner (the victim of their violence) is the one who 
     is violent, neglectful, etc. These false reports (and the 
     threats of them) are too often highly effective at keeping 
     victims trapped in violent relationships.
       Moreover, we know that parents of color are 
     disproportionately accused of child abuse offenses, including 
     abandonment and neglect. Domestic violence survivors are not 
     infrequently charged with child neglect for having ``failed 
     to protect'' their children from witnessing or exposure to an 
     adult's violence committed against the non-abusive parent, 
     resulting in doubly penalizing the survivor and the children 
     for violence committed by someone else. This legislation 
     creates grounds of inadmissibility for these offenses without 
     requiring a conviction, in circumstances where an individual 
     admits that they committed acts that would constitute a 
     crime.
       Language and cultural barriers, fear of the abuser and the 
     authorities, confusion, intimidation, a lack of awareness of 
     rights, and a lack of access to advocates and other 
     resources, all may prevent an immigrant victim from being 
     able to communicate what really happened. Once in custody 
     and/or facing trial, and desperate to be released and 
     reunited with their children, these same factors--combined 
     with poor legal counsel, particularly about the immigration 
     consequences of criminal pleas and convictions--could lead to 
     ineligibility for status, or the deportation of wrongly 
     accused victims who may have pled to or been unfairly 
     convicted of domestic violence charges.
       The legislation's expansion of the definition of domestic 
     violence, which was expressly included in the Violence 
     Against Women Act to allow for the provision of a greater 
     array of victim services, to include circumstances that may 
     not involve violence, physical force, or threats of such is 
     also likely to sweep more survivors into the scope of the 
     ground of inadmissibility or deportability. This will result 
     in more victims being deported and/or bar them from obtaining 
     lawful status. In so doing, it invites additional scrutiny of 
     survivors during the course of their efforts to obtain 
     immigration protections and safety from violence.
       Furthermore, expanding the grounds of inadmissibility or 
     ineligibility for status with no waivers would increase the 
     risk that victims will decline to seek assistance from law 
     enforcement or services if they fear that it will result in a 
     family member being barred from legal status. When creating 
     penalties, balance is key. Deterrence is critically important 
     but will be ineffective if consequences are so severe that 
     survivors will not come forward.
       Although we are grateful for the efforts of lawmakers to 
     seek to address the impact of domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, dating violence, and stalking, we believe the best 
     way to do so is by expanding accessibility of survivor-based 
     immigration relief and related benefits to noncitizen 
     survivors, and by eliminating the cap on visas available to 
     petitioners for U and T nonimmigrant visas and the number of 
     cases eligible for final adjudications of VAWA Cancellation 
     of Removal. Rather than rushing to enact additional 
     immigration pe4alties that could cause harm to survivors, we 
     urge Congressional representatives to consult with service 
     providers and survivors themselves to develop legislation 
     that is responsive to their experiences and needs.
       As a diverse coalition of organizations serving and 
     advocating on behalf of victims of domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, dating violence, and stalking, we thank you for 
     paying vigilant attention to how this bill, by expanding the 
     ways in which domestic violence arrests cad prevent people 
     from accessing or maintaining legal status, can ultimately 
     have devastating consequences for immigrant victims of 
     domestic violence.
           Sincerely,


                         National Organizations

       Asian Pacific Institute on Gender-Based Violence, ASISTA 
     Immigration Assistance, Esperanza United, Tahirih Justice 
     Center, AF31RM, Alliance of Tribal Coalitions to End 
     Violence, American Friends Service Committee (AFSC), 
     Americans for Immigrant Justice, American Muslim Health 
     Professionals, Autistic Self Advocacy, Black Women's 
     Blueprint, BWJP, Caminar Latino-Latinos United for Peace and 
     Equity, Caring Across Generations, Center for Constitutional 
     Rights, Center for Gender & Refugee Studies, Coalition for 
     Humane Immigrant Rights (CHIRLA), Center for Popular 
     Democracy, Coalition on Human Needs, Coalition of Labor Union 
     Women, AFL-CIO, Congregation of Our Lady of Charity of the 
     Good Shepherd, U.S. Provinces, Freedom Network USA, Futures 
     Without Violence, Gender-Based Violence Consulting, Human 
     Trafficking Legal Center, IAmProSe, Immigrant Legal Resource 
     Center, Japanese American Citizens League, Jewish Women 
     International, Joyful Heart Foundation, Just Solutions, 
     Justice in Aging, Justice and Joy National Collaborative 
     (formerly National Crittenton).
       Justice for Migrant Women, Legal Momentum, Lovelace 
     Consulting, Mujeres Latinas en Accion, National Advocacy 
     Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, Nationat Alliance 
     to End Sexual Violence, National Association of Social 
     Workers, National Center on Domestic Violence, Trauma, and 
     Mental Health, National Council of Jewish Women, National 
     Employment Law Project, National Indigenous Women's Resource 
     Center, National LGBTQ Institute on Intimate Partner 
     Violence, National Network to End Domestic Violence, National 
     Resource Center on Domestic Violence, National Survivor 
     Network, National Women's Law Center, Planned Parenthood 
     Federation of America, Public Advocacy for Kids (PAK), 
     Reframe Health and Justice, Refugees International, Respect 
     Together, Safe Havens Interfaith Partnership Against Domestic 
     Violence and Elder Abuse, SAGE Empowerment, Sahiyo U.S., 
     Sisters of Mercy of the Americas Justice Team, South Asian 
     SOAR, The National Domestic Violence Hotline, UltraViolet 
     Action, VALOR, Youth First Justice Collaborative, YWCA USA.


                     State, Territorial, and Local

     Alabama:
       AshaKiran.
     Arizona:
       Arizona Coalition to End Sexual and Domestic Violence, 
     William E. Morris Institute for Justice.
     Arkansas:
       Arkansas Coalition Against Sexual Assault.
     California:
       California Partnership to End Domestic Violence, Coalition 
     to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking, Al Otro Lado, Asian Law 
     Alliance, Community Solutions, Empower Yolo, Haus of a 
     Stranger, Healthy Alternatives to Violent Environments, 
     Immigration Center for Women and Children, Justice At Last, 
     Los Angeles LGBT Center, Maitri, North Coast Rape Crisis 
     Team, Peace Over Violence, Project Sister Family Services, 
     Rape Counseling Services of Fresno, Reach the Valley (REACH), 
     Verity, Wild Iris Family Counseling and Crisis Center, YWCA 
     Golden Gate Silicon Valley.
     Colorado:
       Colorado Coalition Against Sexual Assault, Violence Free 
     Colorado, American Friends Service Committee, Colorado 
     Companeros: Four Corners Immigrant Resource Center, Colorado 
     Immigrant Rights Coalition, El Corazon LLC, Swan Counseling 
     Services, Denver Justice and Peace Committee.
     Connecticut:
       Connecticut Coalition Against Domestic Violence.
     Delaware:
       Delaware Coalition Against Domestic Violence (DCADV).
     District of Columbia:
       DC Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Asian Pacific 
     American Legal Resource Center, Bend the Arc: Jewish Action, 
     The Person Center.
     Florida:
       Florida Legal Services, Inc.
     Georgia:
       Georgia Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Clayton County 
     Association Against Family Violence, Inc., Columbus Alliance 
     for Battered Women, Inc. d/b/a Hope Harbour, International 
     Women's House, Northwest Georgia Family Crisis Center, Inc., 
     Raksha, Inc.
     Hawaii:
       Domestic Violence Action Center, Maui Economic Opportunity, 
     Inc.
     Idaho:
       Idaho Coalition Against Sexual and Domestic Violence.
     Illinois:
       Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Illinois 
     Coalition Against Sexual Assault, Illinois Accountability 
     Initiative, Illinois Alliance for Reentry and Justice, Arab 
     American Family Services, Legal Aid Society of Metropolitan 
     Family Services, The Porchlight Collective SAP.
     Indiana:
       Indiana Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Inc., Indiana 
     Coalition to End Sexual Assault and Human Trafficking 
     (ICESAHT), Family Service Association, ASSIST Indiana, Inc., 
     The Caring Place, Sheltering Wings, The Center for Women and 
     Families, Inc., The Stepping Stone Shelter.
     Iowa:
       Iowa Coalition Against Domestic Violence, EMBARC Iowa.
     Kansas:
       Kansas Coalition Against Sexual & Domestic Violence.
     Kentucky:
       Kentucky Association of Sexual Assault Programs, ZeroV.
     Louisiana:
       Louisiana Foundation Against Sexual Assault.
     Maine:
       Maine Coalition to End Domestic Violence, Maine Coalition 
     Against Sexual Assault, Preble Street.

[[Page H196]]

  

     Maryland:
       Maryland Coalition Against Sexual Assault, Network Against 
     Domestic Violence, The Human Trafficking Prevention Project, 
     University of Maryland SAFE Center.
     Massachusetts:
       Jane Doe Inc.
     Michigan:
       Michigan Coalition to End Domestic and Sexual Violence, 
     SafeHouse Center.
     Minnesota:
       Violence Free Minnesota, Transforming Generations.
     Mississippi:
       Mississippi Coalition Against Domestic Violence.
     Montana:
       Montana Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence.
     Nebraska:
       Nebraska Coalition to End Sexual and Domestic Violence, 
     Catholic Charities of Omaha, Parent-Child Center, Rape and 
     Domestic Abuse Program, Willow Rising.
     Nevada:
       Nevada Coalition to End Domestic and Sexual Violence, 
     Immigration Center for Women and Children--Nevada Office.
     New Jersey:
       New Jersey Coalition to End Domestic Violence.
     New Mexico:
       Tewa Women United.
     New York:
       New York State Coalition Against Domestic Violence, 
     Brooklyn Defender Services, Co-Counsel NYC, Catholic 
     Migration Services, Jahajee Sisters, Her Justice, Inc., 
     Hope's Door, Northern Manhattan Improvement Corporation, Safe 
     Horizon Immigration Law Project, The Legal Aid Society, 
     Turning Point for Women & Families, urban justice center | 
     domestic violence project, Violence Intervention Program, 
     Womankind.
     North Carolina:
       North Carolina Coalition Against Domestic Violence, NC 
     Coalition Against Sexual Assault, Family Abuse Services, 
     Families First, Inc., Friend to Friend, Kearah's Place Inc., 
     Our Voice, Ruth's House, Safelight Inc., Shining Light in 
     Darkness, UCare, Inc.
     Ohio:
       Ohio Alliance To End Sexual Violence, Ohio Domestic 
     Violence Network, Advocating Opportunity.
     Oregon:
       Oregon Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence.
     Pennsylvania:
       Pennsylvania Coalition Against Domestic Violence, 
     Pennsylvania Immigration Resource Center, Pennsylvania 
     Coalition to Advance Respect, Citizens Against Physical, 
     Sexual, and Emotional Abuse, Inc. (CAPSEA, Inc.), Congreso de 
     Latinos Unidos, Domestic Violence Services of Southwestern 
     Pennsylvania, Family Services Incorporated, Laurel House, 
     Lutheran Settlement House, SEAMAAC, Inc., Safe Monroe, 
     Turning Point of Lehigh Valley, Inc., Victims Resource 
     Center, Women's Center of Greater Pittsburgh, Women In 
     Transition, The Women's Center, Inc., WRC.
     Puerto Rico:
       Casa Juana Colon, Centro de la Mujer Dominicana, Inc.
     Rhode Island:
       Rhode Island Coalition Against Domestic Violence.
     South Carolina:
       South Carolina Coalition Against Domestic & Sexual Assault.
     Tennessee:
       Tennessee Coalition to End Domestic and Sexual Violence.
     Texas:
       Daya Inc., Houston Immigration Legal Services 
     Collaborative, Mosaic Family Services.
     Utah:
       Utah Coalition Against Sexual Assault, Utah Domestic 
     Violence Coalition.
     Vermont:
       Vermont Network Against Domestic and Sexual Violence, 
     AWARE, Inc., Mosaic Vermont, NewStory Center, Safeline, Inc.
     Virginia:
       Virginia Sexual and Domestic Violence Action Alliance, 
     Ayuda.
     Washington:
       WA State Coalition Against Domestic Violence, API Chaya, 
     Northwest Immigrant Rights Project, YWCA of Walla Walla.
     West Virginia:
       West Virginia Coalition Against Domestic Violence.
     Wisconsin:
       End Domestic Abuse Wisconsin, Wisconsin Coalition Against 
     Sexual Assault, ASTOP, Inc. Sexual Abuse Center, BeLEAF 
     Survivors, Benedict Center, Deaf Unity, FREE, Freedom, Inc., 
     FRIENDS, Inc., Embrace Services, Inc., Reach Counseling, 
     Roots4Change Cooperative, UNIDOS Against Domestic 
     ViolenceStepping Stones, Inc., We All Rise AARC.
     Wyoming:
       Wyoming Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Sexual 
     Assault.
  Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. Cline).
  Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for leading the 
charge on this legislation, and I find it appalling to hear the 
rhetoric from the other side.
  The excuses being made for the individuals who are here illegally, 
committing acts of domestic violence, committing acts of violence 
against women, and trying to defeat this legislation that would 
strengthen the laws to help these victims are appalling.
  As a former domestic violence prosecutor and as a State legislator, 
we have seen this before. When we try to strengthen laws to protect 
victims of domestic violence, we find all too often those who would 
essentially become apologists for the abusers themselves come in and 
object to these efforts.
  We are seeing that here today. When it comes to the Violence Against 
Women Act, yes, that was a bipartisan piece of legislation until the 
Democrats were in control of the House. Then we saw them try to amend 
it to make it more pro-abortion rights, pro-trans rights. You can't 
even define a woman. How are you going to pass a Violence Against Women 
Act that actually protects women?
  Yes, we stand for the original Violence Against Women Act. In fact, 
we offered it as a substitute. Guess what? The Democrats voted against 
it because they would rather stand up for the other extraneous 
provisions of the legislation.
  This legislation will protect American communities from criminal, 
illegal aliens; create new grounds of inadmissibility and removability; 
and expand current grounds for aliens who commit sex offenses and 
domestic violence offenses.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support it because illegal 
aliens who commit child abuse, sexual assault, and domestic violence 
have no place in our country. This bill makes it clear that predators 
will not be tolerated in the United States.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I wonder if our colleagues could explain why more than 
200 groups advocating for women's rights and women's security are 
opposing this legislation?
  Can they explain why the groups that are on the front lines of 
opposing domestic violence reject their legislation as sloppy and bound 
to hurt the victims?
  We have heard no explanation about that, and we reject the slur that 
we are somehow standing up for the abusers here when we are standing up 
for the victims. This legislation, if it were to pass, would actually 
make it a lot easier for the abusers to terrify and intimidate the 
victims.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the very distinguished gentleman 
from California (Mr. Correa).
  Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, let's be clear: Under current law, people 
who commit sexual offenses are already inadmissible to this country and 
subject to deportation.
  Let's be clear: I fully support, all of us fully support, getting 
convicted sexual predators off of our streets, irrespective of their 
legal status.
  Sexual crimes are the most heinous crimes. However, to solve a crime, 
first you have to report it. Sadly, sex crimes are the most 
underreported crimes there are.
  Mr. Speaker, in Orange County, we have worked for years to make sure 
to earn the trust so the immigrant community can step up and report 
crimes, and this bill is going to undo all of that work. This bill, by 
using the broader VAWA definition, will make victims who acted in self-
defense, victims who were wrongly accused by their abusers, unable to 
defend themselves, and subject to deportation.
  This bill will also apply to individuals with legal status, people 
with green cards, students, temporary workers, DACA holders, and TPS 
holders.
  Mr. Speaker, this bill will now give crime victims all the reasons in 
the world not to report a crime. This bill punishes victims, pushes 
victims back into the shadows, telling the victims if they report a 
crime, they are subject to deportation.
  I ask my colleagues to let us go back. Let us redraft this bill to do 
what it is

[[Page H197]]

intended to do, to get sexual predators off our streets and to protect 
the victims of sex crimes, the most heinous crimes.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this measure.
  Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. McClintock).
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, three moms came before the House 
Committee on the Judiciary last fall. They had one thing in common. 
Their daughters had been brutally assaulted and murdered by illegal 
aliens who had been allowed into this country by the Democratic 
administration and had not been removed even after committing other 
offenses, as well.
  The statistics tell us how broad this threat has become. Behind the 
statistics are grieving families, shattered lives, and entirely 
preventable atrocities. Not one of these murderers would have been here 
except for the Democrats' deliberate policies.
  The Democrats often talk about the war on women, but they couldn't 
care less about allowing a flood of sexual offenders, domestic violence 
offenders, and child abusers into our communities, allowing them to 
stay indefinitely, free from any fear of deportation and protected by 
the Democrats' sanctuary laws.
  When these monsters commit these ghastly acts and grief-stricken moms 
come here for help, the Democrats put on their best long faces, assure 
everyone how much they grieve with the families, and then argue to 
continue precisely the same policies that have produced this nightmare 
in the first place.
  Thank God that in 4 days this tragic chapter in our Nation's history 
will close. Shortly after noon on Monday, President Trump will issue 
executive orders to protect the American people once again. It is too 
late for these grieving families but perhaps just in time for yours or 
mine.
  Yet I worry that if the Democrats are ever returned to power, these 
policies will resume. We have got to change our laws so that they 
can't. This measure removes the loopholes in current law that allowed 
the Democrats to unleash this scourge on our communities and requires 
that illegal aliens who commit sex offenses or domestic violence not be 
allowed into this country under any circumstances and must be 
immediately removed if they do get in, no matter who is President.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentlewoman from California (Ms. Simon).
  Ms. SIMON. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Raskin for the time.
  Mr. Speaker, I am honored today to speak in this Chamber as a 
survivor. Folks know back home that I have been doing this work for 30 
years, day in and day out.
  As a survivor, I almost lost my life in my early twenties. I am proud 
to stand with millions of women and girls who have been victims and who 
are moving toward survivorship in saying no to this piece of 
legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I come with 30 years of experience. I started my career 
leading the Young Women's Freedom Center, and I stood shoulder to 
shoulder with young women and girls who had been trafficked and beaten. 
I have been in morgues. I have been in the tanks of our county jails, 
literally on my knees, pleading with law enforcement to let young women 
out who themselves were victims and who were incarcerated wrongly for 
standing up for themselves while they fought for their lives.
  I have learned through this work that justice is not a principle. It 
is our responsibility.
  Later in my career, I led the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights 
Under Law started by President Kennedy. We expanded access and legal 
representation for migrants and asylum seekers, many who came seeking 
peace and solidarity, in search of safety and dignity.
  Today, as a Representative of California's 12th District, I remain 
committed to advancing real solutions and making our communities safer. 
I, too, was a domestic violence advocate for a prosecutor.

                              {time}  1000

  I know this work. I remain committed to working with my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle to fix a severely broken immigration system, 
but moreover, I am here to stand up for victims.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield the gentlewoman from California an 
additional 1 minute.
  Ms. SIMON. H.R. 30, and I repeat, does nothing to advance these 
solutions. Instead, it broadens the definition of domestic violence in 
ways that punishes survivors, making them inadmissible and subject to 
deportation, regardless of their legal status.
  I say to my colleagues: We must read this bill. Read it. Let me be 
clear: We know that Federal law already allows deportation, demands 
deportation for individuals convicted of domestic violence. H.R. 30 
doesn't strengthen the protection of survivors--it weaponizes them.
  I know what it means to protect victims, Mr. Speaker. It means to 
fight systemic inequities in our current systems that don't work for 
those victims or survivors. H.R. 30 doesn't do this work.
  That is why I too stand with over 200 organizations, one in which I 
cofounded, the Sister Warriors Freedom Coalition, that is 10,000 
strong, who are young women and girls who are surviving rape and 
domestic violence and trafficking. They, too, say no.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for her 
distinguished remarks, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Missouri (Mr. Onder).
  Mr. ONDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 30, the 
Preventing Violence Against Women by Illegal Aliens Act.
  President Biden's open-border policies have been felt in our 
communities where now more than ever women are hesitant to walk alone 
in parking lots and look over their shoulders.
  In the past few years, we have seen illegal aliens chase, beat, 
sexually assault, and burn women even in public. These illegal aliens 
target and abuse women.
  This bill sends an important message that we will have zero tolerance 
for domestic and sexual violence by illegal aliens.
  H.R. 30, the Preventing Violence Against Women by Illegal Aliens Act, 
builds on the Laken Riley Act. While the Laken Riley Act would have 
prevented the death of that 22-year-old nursing student, this bill will 
protect women in the future by strengthening protections against 
violent aliens.
  This bill has two important components.
  First, it amends current immigration law to expand the definition of 
sex offenses that require deportation. It would explicitly create 
grounds for inadmissibility for aliens who commit a sex offense as 
defined by the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006.
  Second, it explicitly establishes a ground of inadmissibility for 
specific domestic violence offenses. It closes a loophole in current 
law and clarifies what illegal aliens must be removed for domestic 
violence.
  Enforcement by ICE for these offenses has plummeted in the years 
between the Trump and the Biden administrations. Over that same period, 
we have seen an increase in violent crimes and sexual assaults by 
illegal aliens. It is time to replace the slap-on-the-wrist approach 
with law and order.
  I genuinely believe that this legislation is part of our mandate from 
the American people, and we should send this legislation to Donald 
Trump's desk for signature on day one.
  On Tuesday, I was very encouraged to see 48 of my Democrat colleagues 
vote for the commonsense protection of Americans by voting for the 
Laken Riley Act. Deporting domestic violence offenders and aliens who 
commit sexual assault should not be a partisan issue. I hope that my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle will join us in supporting 
H.R. 30.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from New York (Mr. Nadler).
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, let's be very clear. Sexual offenses and 
domestic violence are serious crimes and are already grounds for 
deportability and inadmissibility, as they should be.
  Unfortunately, this bill is so poorly drafted that it would result in 
extremely harsh and unintended consequences, including the removal of 
survivors of domestic violence.

[[Page H198]]

  This bill attempts to significantly expand the definition of domestic 
violence to include the Violence Against Women Act definition that is 
used for grants and funding. This is a much broader definition that was 
never meant to be used in criminal law. We know that because the 
definition explicitly says it covers conduct ``that may or may not 
constitute criminal behavior.''
  The definition for domestic violence under Federal criminal law 
focuses on physical force. This broader VAWA-based definition sweeps in 
a wider range of behaviors that domestic violence organizations say 
will implicate survivors who have used violence in self-defense or who 
were accused by their abusers and were either unable to defend 
themselves or pled guilty to avoid having to go through the court 
process.
  This bill would also make it less likely that immigrant communities 
will report incidents of domestic violence. We recently celebrated the 
30th anniversary of the passage of VAWA, and we should continue our 
work to combat domestic violence, but this legislation would actually 
set back our efforts to protect survivors.
  That is why over 200 national and local groups, as part of the 
National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence, the experts in 
the field, oppose this legislation. I think we ought to listen to them. 
We need to work together to solve our immigration problems, but this 
bill takes us in the wrong direction.
  The Republican majority has chosen to begin this year with a series 
of bills intended to fearmonger and demonize immigrants.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Kennedy of Utah). The time of the 
gentleman has expired.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield the gentleman from New York an 
additional 15 seconds to conclude.
  Mr. NADLER. The Republican majority has chosen to begin this year 
with a series of bills intended to fearmonger and demonize immigrants. 
This legislation not only perpetuates that effort, but it would also 
have serious consequences for survivors of domestic violence.
  I urge my colleagues to oppose this misguided bill.
  Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield 7 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from South Carolina (Ms. Mace).
  Ms. MACE. Mr. Speaker, yes, I rise today to ``demonize,'' as the word 
was used on the left across the aisle, to demonize illegal immigrants 
who are here raping our women and girls, murdering our women and girls, 
and who are pedophiles molesting our children. You are darn right. That 
is what I am here to do today.
  I rise in strong support of my bill, H.R. 30, the Preventing Violence 
Against Women By Illegal Aliens Act.
  Under the open-border policies of Joe Biden and border czar Kamala 
Harris and Secretary Mayorkas, our country has been ravaged by a hoard 
of illegal aliens molesting American children, battering and bruising 
and beating up American women, and violently raping American women and 
girls.
  My bill makes it very clear: If an illegal alien commits a sex crime 
or an act of domestic violence, they are inadmissible and deportable--
we aren't letting you into our country, and if you are already here, we 
are sending you back to yours.
  My colleagues on the other side of the aisle like to try to minimize 
this issue because they refuse to acknowledge the consequences of their 
open-borders agenda, but the numbers don't lie.
  According to ICE, as of July, there were nearly 650,000 illegal 
aliens on the nondetained docket who are convicted criminals who have 
been charged with crimes.
  These criminal illegal aliens freely roam our streets committing 
senseless acts of violence against American women and children. This 
includes over 100,000 illegal aliens convicted of or charged with 
assault. It includes over 20,000 illegal aliens convicted of or charged 
with sexual assault and rape. It includes over 12,000 illegal aliens 
convicted of or charged with sex offenses. It includes over 3,000 
illegal aliens convicted of or charged with kidnapping. And it includes 
nearly 15,000 illegal aliens convicted of or charged with murder. That 
is who the left are defending this morning: murderers, rapists, and 
pedophiles.
  Hundreds of thousands of criminal illegal aliens are out on our 
streets terrorizing our women and girls. This bill passed the House 
last year in September by a vote of 266-158. Mr. Speaker, 158 Democrats 
voted against this bill last time. Will they apologize to American 
women and girls today and do the right thing for our citizens?
  A vote against this bill is a vote against deporting illegal aliens 
who rape and abuse women and children. A vote against this bill is a 
vote to invite illegal aliens who rape and abuse women and children 
into the United States of America. I can think of nothing less American 
than that.
  It is despicable that 158 Members of this body, which is supposed to 
represent the interests of American citizens, voted to prioritize 
illegal aliens who are sexual predators and domestic abusers, rapists, 
and pedophiles over the safety of American women and girls.
  Mr. Speaker, what do the 158 Members of this body who voted last time 
to protect illegal aliens who are sexual predators have to say to the 
family of Jocelyn Nungaray, a 12-year-old girl who was brutally raped 
and strangled to death by two illegal aliens from Venezuela?
  What do the 158 Democrats who voted against this bill last time have 
to say to the family of Rachel Morin from Maryland, a mother of five, 
who was brutally raped, brutally choked, and beaten to death on a 
hiking trail by an illegal alien from El Salvador?
  What do the 158 Members of this body, the Democrats who voted against 
this bill last time, have to say to the family of Kayla Hamilton, a 20-
year-old with autism who was tied up, raped, and strangled to death 
with a phone cord by an illegal alien who was a member of MS-13?
  As a survivor of both rape and domestic violence myself, I know the 
devastating toll, the devastating consequences, that heinous crimes 
like these have on a woman. I know the lifelong, irreversible scars 
these heinous crimes leave behind.
  The blood and the physical and emotional pain caused by these 
tragedies, the trauma caused by these tragedies, the lifelong trauma of 
these tragedies, this blood is on the hands of every single Democrat in 
this body who votes against this bill.
  It is our birthright as American citizens to live freely and safely 
in our communities. One woman, one child victimized by one illegal 
alien is one too many. They have no right to be here.
  Some of my colleagues across the aisle claim that the definition of 
domestic violence in this bill is too broad. They are wrong. The 
current definition isn't broad enough, and I know this now that I have 
been a victim most recently of domestic violence and abuse that VAWA 
did not go far enough, and our States have a lot more to go to protect 
women and girls.
  I implore my colleagues to look at their hearts, hear the cries of 
the families who have been shattered by these evil acts committed by 
illegal aliens, and put American women and children first and pass this 
bill.

                              {time}  1015

  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record three reports on arrests.

   [From the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Feb. 2, 2024]

 ERO Seattle Arrests 6 Noncitizens With Criminal Convictions for Child 
                 Exploitation During National Operation

       Seattle--U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's (ICE) 
     Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) Seattle arrested six 
     noncitizens convicted of crimes related to child exploitation 
     during a nationwide law enforcement effort that ran from 
     January 16-28.
       ``Noncitizens who commit repugnant acts at the expense of 
     children will not be allowed to claim our great nation as 
     their home,'' said ERO Seattle Field Office Director Drew 
     Bostock. ``The arrests ERO Seattle made during this national 
     operation are an example of the constant contributions we 
     make locally to keep the U.S. safe from child predators.''
       All arrests took place in the assigned ERO Seattle states 
     of Alaska, Washington and Oregon, with criminal convictions 
     made by courts in Washington and Oregon.
       Those arrested include:
       A 53-year-old citizen of El Salvador in Tacoma who was 
     convicted of felony child molestation in the first degree, 
     child molestation in the second degree, and rape of a child 
     in the third degree.

[[Page H199]]

       A 42-year-old citizen of Mexico in Moses Lake who was 
     convicted of dealing in depictions of a minor engaged in 
     sexually explicit conduct.
       A 39-year-old citizen of Mexico in Federal Way who was 
     convicted of communication with a minor for immoral purposes.
       A 69-year-old citizen of Mexico in Yakima who was convicted 
     of dealing in depictions of a minor engaged in sexually 
     explicit conduct.
       A 58-year-old citizen of Mexico in Yakima who was convicted 
     of child molestation in the first degree, child molestation 
     in the second degree, and rape of a child in the third 
     degree.
       A 43-year-old citizen of Mexico in Woodburn, Oregon, who 
     was convicted of first degree sexual abuse of a minor.
       ERO officers evaluate individuals on a case-by-case basis, 
     assessing the totality of the facts and circumstances to make 
     informed arrest determinations. Those cases amenable to 
     federal criminal prosecution can be presented to the U.S. 
     attorney's office. ERO also coordinates with U.S. Citizenship 
     and Immigration Services to evaluate the completion of 
     relevant noncitizen applications.
       In fiscal year 2023, ERO arrested 73,822 noncitizens with 
     criminal histories; this group had 290,178 associated charges 
     and convictions with an average of four per individual. These 
     included 33,209 assaults; 4,390 sex and sexual assaults; 
     7,520 weapons offenses; 1,7l3 charges or convictions for 
     homicide; and 1,655 kidnapping offenses.
       As one of ICE's three operational directorates, ERO is the 
     principal federal law enforcement authority in charge of 
     domestic immigration enforcement. ERO's mission is to protect 
     the homeland through the arrest and removal of those who 
     undermine the safety of U.S. communities and the integrity of 
     U.S. immigration laws, and its primary areas of focus are 
     interior enforcement operations, management of the agency's 
     detained and non-detained populations, and repatriation of 
     noncitizens who have received final orders of removal. ERO's 
     workforce consists of more than 7,700 law enforcement and 
     non-law enforcement support personnel across 25 domestic 
     field offices and 208 locations nationwide, 30 overseas 
     postings, and multiple temporary duty travel assignments 
     along the border.
       Members of the public can report crimes and suspicious 
     activity by dialing 866-347-2423 or completing the online tip 
     form. Learn more about ICE's mission to increase public 
     safety in your community by following us on X, formerly known 
     as Twitter, @EROSeattle.
                                  ____


                      [From US NEWS, May 16, 2024]

 Serial Rapist Illegal Migrant Attacked Woman in Rape Dungeon on Wheels

                         (By Katherine Donlevy)

       An illegal migrant allegedly went on a serial raping spree 
     in Southern California, attacking his victims in a ``rape 
     dungeon on wheels'' before he was caught in the act by cops.
       Eduardo Sarabia, 40, was arrested Monday with a 26-year-old 
     woman inside his decked-out van, which he had driven to a 
     remote area of the San Gabriel Mountains near San Bernadino, 
     sources told Fox 11.
       It was the second time in two days that he allegedly took a 
     victim to the secluded spot--but investigators suspect that 
     Sarabia's twisted spree lasted much longer.
                                  ____


                     [From US News, June 15, 2024]

  Rachel Morin Murder: Illegal Immigrant From El Salvador Charged in 
                   Rape, Killing of Maryland Mom-of-5

                         (By Katherine Donlevy)

       A migrant from El Salvador has been busted for the brutal 
     2023 rape and murder of mom of five Rachel Morin on a 
     Maryland hiking trail, cops said.
       Victor Martinez-Hernandez, 23, was tracked down in Tulsa, 
     Oklahoma Friday, after police matched his DNA to the gruesome 
     crime scene, Harford County Sherriff Jeffrey Gahler told 
     reporters Saturday.
       ``Rachel's murderer is no longer a free man and, hopefully, 
     he will never have the opportunity to walk free again,'' 
     Gahler said.
  Ms. MACE. Mr. Speaker, since we have someone from the State of 
Maryland, this was on FOX News: ``Arrest of illegal immigrant 
previously convicted of rape in Maryland marks record for ICE.''
  ``ICE nabs several migrants convicted of child molestation, one 
convicted murderer, in blue State suburbs.''
  Another one from Maryland: ``Rachel Morin murder: Illegal immigrant 
from El Salvador charged in rape, killing of Maryland mom of five.''
  We had someone from Washington today talk. Here is an article about 
the ERO: ``ERO Seattle arrests six noncitizens with criminal 
convictions for child exploitation during national operation.''
  In California: ``Serial rapist illegal migrant attacked woman in 
`rape dungeon on wheels,''' said the cops.
  Of course, for someone from New York, here is the headline from New 
York: ``ERO New York City arrests unlawfully present Salvadoran citizen 
convicted of rape.''
  These are the illegals that the left is defending today. I find it 
disgusting and offensive, and I will always put American women and 
girls first.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentlewoman from Wisconsin (Ms. Moore).
  Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding to me.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this dangerous 
legislation. It has been pointed out in this debate that H.R. 30 fails 
to protect domestic abuse survivors as it undermines the Violence 
Against Women Act, historic legislation that was carefully drafted in a 
bipartisan manner, which included critical protections like U visas and 
T visas, the battered spouse waiver, and the option to self-petition 
for permanent residence.
  This legislation, whether it means it or not or intends it or not, 
really cancels out these important protections.
  Immigrant survivors are already afraid. We don't need to fearmonger 
them anymore. They are already scared of contacting the police due to 
the deportation risk, and H.R. 30 exacerbates the real concerns that 
these victims will be swept up by this bill.
  As noted by a wide range of stakeholders, immigrant victims are 
particularly vulnerable to being arrested and prosecuted for domestic 
violence or acting in self-defense, even if they are falsely accused by 
an abuser of being a primary aggressor.
  We know that this comes straight out of a playbook by some of our 
historic traffickers and pimps. This bill would empower pimps and 
traffickers as it is written, and it will sweep more survivors into 
being inadmissible or deportable.
  Mr. Speaker, how does that protect them?
  In the name of protecting domestic violence victims, we cannot debate 
and pass a bill that makes it worse for them. If the majority is 
serious about addressing the epidemic of domestic and sexual violence 
in our country, then we can start by addressing the funding challenges 
facing the Victims of Crime Act, which supports services for victims, 
or by expanding access to U visas and T visas, which help law 
enforcement protect victims.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 15 seconds to the 
gentlewoman from Wisconsin.
  Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, we want to protect moms from 
domestic violence acts, as homicide is the leading cause of death of 
pregnant women.
  Mr. Speaker, at the appropriate time, I will offer a motion to 
recommit so we can fix this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his indulgence.
  Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers. I am 
prepared to close, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to include in the Record the 
text of this amendment immediately prior to the vote on the motion to 
recommit.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Maryland?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  I can't blame my colleagues because they ran on a platform of doing 
better than Joe Biden on the economy, but he gave us an economy that is 
the glory of the world and ``the envy of the world,'' as The Economist 
magazine put it recently. It created 16 million new jobs, a roaring 
stock market, and a revived manufacturing sector.
  Instead of doing anything to lower the price of groceries, which is 
what they promised, and to lower the price of energy, which they 
promised, they come back and basically ask us to pass what is already 
in the law but they subtract from their duplicative and redundant 
section the waivers and exceptions that protect the victims and 
survivors of domestic violence.
  Instead, they just want to associate all immigrants with criminal 
delinquency. The vast majority of rapes in America of American women 
are committed by citizens, and the vast majority of noncitizens never 
commit rapes.
  Donald Trump released 58,184 noncitizens with criminal records who 
came in during his administration, including 8,620 violent criminals 
and 306 murderers. ICE ended up rearresting 11,000

[[Page H200]]

noncitizens who had been admitted under Donald Trump.
  We can sit here and demagogue back and forth and say, ``You let 
someone in who did something bad. You let someone in who did something 
criminal,'' but we are not going to do that. We want to make progress 
for America.
  Let's reject this opportunistic, silly bill, and let's move forward 
to guarantee the safety of America's women.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. LEE of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my 
time.
  Democrats claim this bill is unnecessary because aliens who commit 
sex offenses or domestic violence offenses are already inadmissible or 
removable. That ignores reality.

  Take, for example, the fact that, under current immigration law, 
there is no explicit ground of inadmissibility for illegal aliens who 
commit domestic violence offenses, despite a ground of removability for 
aliens who commit such offenses, or consider that despite certain sex 
offenses making aliens removable from the country, there currently is 
not a ground of inadmissibility or removability for certain sex 
offenses.
  Although some aliens who commit these offenses may be found 
inadmissible or removable for having committed a crime involving moral 
turpitude, that is far from certain.
  Under current law, loopholes abound. For example, in 2023, the Ninth 
Circuit held that a conviction for menacing constituting domestic 
violence was not a crime involving moral turpitude even though the 
alien threatened his wife with a knife.
  The Third Circuit held that an alien was not removable despite a 
conviction for involuntary devient sexual intercourse with a 15-year-
old.
  Similarly, courts have found that certain convictions for 
contributing to the delinquency of a minor, assault of a victim under 
12 years old, and annoying or molesting a child are not crimes 
involving moral turpitude.
  That is why this bill is imperative. It is to ensure that criminal 
aliens who endanger families and communities can be removed from the 
United States.
  The Biden-Harris administration's war on women must come to an end, 
and this bill is one step toward that.
  Making guests in our country inadmissible to and removable from the 
United States because they have committed a sex offense or domestic 
violence offense should be something that even open-border Democrats 
can agree with us on.
  Mr. Speaker, the Preventing Violence Against Women by Illegal Aliens 
Act is a straightforward, commonsense bill that I urge my colleagues to 
support, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 30.
  H.R. 30 undermines the basic constitutional protection of a person 
being innocent until proven guilty. It subjects immigrants, including 
those who have been victims of domestic violence, to new grounds of 
inadmissibility and deportability that do not require a conviction in 
court. This is an ominous step toward the erosion of the rights of all 
people in the United States, including citizens.
  The U.S. immigration system has been broken for decades. Every 
bipartisan proposal to fix it has been fractured by Republicans' 
refusal to work with Democrats to find effective solutions.
  Now, as we begin the 119th Congress with Republicans again in the 
majority, they continue to reject a bipartisan way forward to find real 
solutions. Instead, Republicans have chosen to bring more deeply flawed 
messaging bills to the House floor. This legislation does not just 
target people who are in the United States illegally. Its impact will 
be felt by many of our neighbors, from green card holders and students 
to temporary workers and DACA recipients.
  Here's the bottom line: under our existing immigration laws, people 
who commit domestic violence, sexual offenses, or other heinous crimes 
are already inadmissible and removable. This bill does not secure the 
border, nor does it work to fix our immigration system. It only puts 
innocent people, legally present in the United States, at risk of 
deportation. Republicans must begin to work toward bipartisan, 
constructive solutions to fix our broken immigration system.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Moran). All time for debate has expired.
  Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the previous question is ordered on 
the bill.
  The question is on the engrossment and third reading of the bill.
  The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was 
read the third time.


                           Motion to Recommit

  Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at 
the desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to 
recommit.
  The Clerk read as follows:
       Ms. Moore of Wisconsin moves to recommit the bill H.R. 30 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
  The material previously referred to by Ms. Moore of Wisconsin is as 
follows:

       Ms. Moore of Wisconsin moves to recommit the bill H.R. 30 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary with instructions to report 
     the same back to the House forthwith, with the following 
     amendment:
       Page 3, line 10, insert after ``is inadmissible.'' the 
     following: ``The Attorney General or Secretary of Homeland 
     Security shall not be limited by the criminal court record 
     and may waive the application of clauses (i) and (ii) in the 
     case of an alien who has been battered or subjected to 
     extreme cruelty and who is not and was not the primary 
     perpetrator of violence in the relationship, upon making a 
     determination described in section 237(a)(7)(A)(i).''.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XIX, the 
previous question is ordered on the motion to recommit.
  The question is on the motion to recommit.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it.
  Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and 
nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair 
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum time for any electronic vote on 
the question of passage.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 206, 
nays 213, not voting 15, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 16]

                               YEAS--206

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amo
     Ansari
     Auchincloss
     Balint
     Barragan
     Bell
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop
     Bonamici
     Boyle (PA)
     Brown
     Brownley
     Budzinski
     Bynum
     Carbajal
     Carson
     Carter (LA)
     Casar
     Case
     Casten
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Cherfilus-McCormick
     Chu
     Cisneros
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Craig
     Crockett
     Crow
     Cuellar
     Davids (KS)
     Davis (IL)
     Davis (NC)
     Dean (PA)
     DeGette
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Deluzio
     DeSaulnier
     Dexter
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Elfreth
     Escobar
     Espaillat
     Evans (PA)
     Fields
     Figures
     Fletcher
     Foster
     Foushee
     Frankel, Lois
     Friedman
     Frost
     Garamendi
     Garcia (CA)
     Garcia (IL)
     Garcia (TX)
     Gillen
     Golden (ME)
     Goldman (NY)
     Gomez
     Gonzalez, V.
     Goodlander
     Gottheimer
     Gray
     Green, Al (TX)
     Harder (CA)
     Hayes
     Himes
     Horsford
     Houlahan
     Hoyer
     Hoyle (OR)
     Huffman
     Ivey
     Jackson (IL)
     Jacobs
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (TX)
     Kamlager-Dove
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy (NY)
     Khanna
     Krishnamoorthi
     Landsman
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Latimer
     Lee (NV)
     Lee (PA)
     Leger Fernandez
     Levin
     Liccardo
     Lieu
     Lofgren
     Lynch
     Magaziner
     Mannion
     Matsui
     McBath
     McBride
     McClain Delaney
     McClellan
     McCollum
     McDonald Rivet
     McGarvey
     McGovern
     McIver
     Meeks
     Menendez
     Meng
     Mfume
     Min
     Moore (WI)
     Morelle
     Morrison
     Moskowitz
     Mullin
     Nadler
     Neal
     Neguse
     Norcross
     Ocasio-Cortez
     Olszewski
     Omar
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pappas
     Perez
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Pou
     Pressley
     Ramirez
     Randall
     Raskin
     Riley (NY)
     Rivas
     Ross
     Ruiz
     Ryan
     Salinas
     Sanchez
     Scanlon
     Schakowsky
     Schneider
     Scholten
     Schrier
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Sewell
     Sherrill
     Simon
     Smith (WA)
     Sorensen
     Soto
     Stansbury
     Stanton
     Stevens
     Strickland
     Subramanyam
     Suozzi
     Swalwell
     Sykes
     Takano
     Thanedar
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tlaib
     Tokuda
     Tonko
     Torres (CA)
     Torres (NY)
     Trahan
     Tran
     Turner (TX)
     Underwood
     Vargas
     Vasquez
     Veasey
     Velazquez
     Vindman
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters
     Watson Coleman
     Whitesides
     Williams (GA)

                               NAYS--213

     Aderholt
     Alford
     Allen
     Amodei (NV)
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Baird
     Balderson
     Barr
     Barrett
     Baumgartner
     Bean (FL)
     Begich
     Bentz
     Bergman
     Bice
     Biggs (AZ)

[[Page H201]]


     Biggs (SC)
     Bilirakis
     Boebert
     Bost
     Bresnahan
     Buchanan
     Burchett
     Burlison
     Calvert
     Cammack
     Carey
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Ciscomani
     Cline
     Cloud
     Clyde
     Cole
     Collins
     Comer
     Crane
     Crank
     Crawford
     Crenshaw
     De La Cruz
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donalds
     Downing
     Dunn (FL)
     Edwards
     Ellzey
     Emmer
     Estes
     Evans (CO)
     Ezell
     Fallon
     Fedorchak
     Feenstra
     Finstad
     Fischbach
     Fitzgerald
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flood
     Fong
     Foxx
     Franklin, Scott
     Fry
     Fulcher
     Garbarino
     Gill (TX)
     Gimenez
     Goldman (TX)
     Gonzales, Tony
     Gooden
     Gosar
     Graves
     Green (TN)
     Greene (GA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guest
     Guthrie
     Hageman
     Hamadeh (AZ)
     Haridopolos
     Harrigan
     Harris (MD)
     Harris (NC)
     Harshbarger
     Hern (OK)
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill (AR)
     Hinson
     Houchin
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hurd (CO)
     Issa
     Jack
     Jackson (TX)
     James
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (SD)
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Joyce (PA)
     Kean
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy (UT)
     Kiggans (VA)
     Kiley (CA)
     Kim
     Knott
     Kustoff
     LaHood
     LaLota
     LaMalfa
     Langworthy
     Latta
     Lawler
     Lee (FL)
     Letlow
     Loudermilk
     Lucas
     Luna
     Luttrell
     Mace
     Mackenzie
     Malliotakis
     Maloy
     Mann
     Massie
     Mast
     McCaul
     McClintock
     McCormick
     McDowell
     McGuire
     Messmer
     Meuser
     Miller (IL)
     Miller (OH)
     Miller (WV)
     Miller-Meeks
     Mills
     Moolenaar
     Moore (AL)
     Moore (NC)
     Moore (UT)
     Moore (WV)
     Moran
     Murphy
     Nehls
     Newhouse
     Norman
     Nunn (IA)
     Obernolte
     Ogles
     Onder
     Owens
     Palmer
     Perry
     Pfluger
     Reschenthaler
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rose
     Rouzer
     Roy
     Rulli
     Rutherford
     Salazar
     Scalise
     Schmidt
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Self
     Sessions
     Shreve
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smucker
     Spartz
     Stauber
     Stefanik
     Steil
     Steube
     Strong
     Stutzman
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Tiffany
     Timmons
     Valadao
     Van Drew
     Van Duyne
     Van Orden
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Westerman
     Wied
     Williams (TX)
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Yakym
     Zinke

                             NOT VOTING--15

     Beatty
     Brecheen
     Davidson
     Grijalva
     Hunt
     McClain
     Moulton
     Mrvan
     Pelosi
     Pettersen
     Quigley
     Sherman
     Turner (OH)
     Waltz
     Wilson (FL)

                              {time}  1050

  Mses. VAN DUYNE, MALOY, Messrs. VAN ORDEN, HUIZENGA, BAUMGARTNER, 
WESTERMAN, and GILL of Texas changed their vote from ``yea'' to 
``nay.''
  So the motion to recommit was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the passage of the bill.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a 5-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 274, 
nays 145, not voting 15, as follows:

                             [Roll No. 17]

                               YEAS--274

     Aderholt
     Alford
     Allen
     Amodei (NV)
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Baird
     Balderson
     Barr
     Barrett
     Baumgartner
     Bean (FL)
     Begich
     Bentz
     Bergman
     Bice
     Biggs (AZ)
     Biggs (SC)
     Bilirakis
     Boebert
     Bost
     Boyle (PA)
     Brecheen
     Bresnahan
     Buchanan
     Budzinski
     Burchett
     Burlison
     Bynum
     Calvert
     Cammack
     Carey
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Ciscomani
     Cline
     Cloud
     Clyburn
     Clyde
     Cole
     Collins
     Comer
     Conaway
     Courtney
     Craig
     Crane
     Crank
     Crawford
     Crenshaw
     Cuellar
     Davids (KS)
     Davis (NC)
     De La Cruz
     DesJarlais
     Donalds
     Downing
     Dunn (FL)
     Edwards
     Ellzey
     Emmer
     Estes
     Evans (CO)
     Ezell
     Fallon
     Fedorchak
     Feenstra
     Figures
     Finstad
     Fischbach
     Fitzgerald
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flood
     Fong
     Foxx
     Franklin, Scott
     Fry
     Fulcher
     Garbarino
     Gill (TX)
     Gillen
     Gimenez
     Golden (ME)
     Goldman (TX)
     Gonzales, Tony
     Gonzalez, V.
     Gooden
     Goodlander
     Gosar
     Gottheimer
     Graves
     Gray
     Green (TN)
     Greene (GA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guest
     Guthrie
     Hageman
     Hamadeh (AZ)
     Harder (CA)
     Haridopolos
     Harrigan
     Harris (MD)
     Harris (NC)
     Harshbarger
     Hayes
     Hern (OK)
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill (AR)
     Himes
     Hinson
     Horsford
     Houchin
     Houlahan
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hurd (CO)
     Issa
     Jack
     Jackson (TX)
     James
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (SD)
     Johnson (TX)
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Joyce (PA)
     Kaptur
     Kean
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy (NY)
     Kennedy (UT)
     Khanna
     Kiggans (VA)
     Kiley (CA)
     Kim
     Knott
     Kustoff
     LaHood
     LaLota
     LaMalfa
     Landsman
     Langworthy
     Latta
     Lawler
     Lee (FL)
     Lee (NV)
     Letlow
     Levin
     Loudermilk
     Lucas
     Luna
     Luttrell
     Lynch
     Mace
     Mackenzie
     Magaziner
     Malliotakis
     Maloy
     Mann
     Mannion
     Massie
     Mast
     McBride
     McCaul
     McClain Delaney
     McClintock
     McCormick
     McDonald Rivet
     McDowell
     McGuire
     Messmer
     Meuser
     Miller (IL)
     Miller (OH)
     Miller (WV)
     Miller-Meeks
     Mills
     Moolenaar
     Moore (AL)
     Moore (NC)
     Moore (UT)
     Moore (WV)
     Moran
     Morrison
     Moskowitz
     Murphy
     Nehls
     Newhouse
     Norman
     Nunn (IA)
     Obernolte
     Ogles
     Onder
     Owens
     Palmer
     Panetta
     Pappas
     Perez
     Perry
     Pfluger
     Reschenthaler
     Riley (NY)
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rose
     Rouzer
     Roy
     Rulli
     Rutherford
     Ryan
     Salazar
     Salinas
     Scalise
     Schmidt
     Scholten
     Schrier
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Self
     Sessions
     Sewell
     Sherrill
     Shreve
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smucker
     Sorensen
     Soto
     Spartz
     Stanton
     Stauber
     Stefanik
     Steil
     Steube
     Strong
     Stutzman
     Subramanyam
     Suozzi
     Swalwell
     Sykes
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Tiffany
     Timmons
     Titus
     Torres (NY)
     Trahan
     Tran
     Valadao
     Van Drew
     Van Duyne
     Van Orden
     Vasquez
     Vindman
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Westerman
     Whitesides
     Wied
     Williams (TX)
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Yakym
     Zinke

                               NAYS--145

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amo
     Ansari
     Auchincloss
     Balint
     Barragan
     Bell
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop
     Bonamici
     Brown
     Brownley
     Carbajal
     Carson
     Carter (LA)
     Casar
     Case
     Casten
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Cherfilus-McCormick
     Chu
     Cisneros
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Cleaver
     Cohen
     Connolly
     Correa
     Costa
     Crockett
     Crow
     Davis (IL)
     Dean (PA)
     DeGette
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Deluzio
     DeSaulnier
     Dexter
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Elfreth
     Escobar
     Espaillat
     Evans (PA)
     Fields
     Fletcher
     Foster
     Foushee
     Frankel, Lois
     Friedman
     Frost
     Garamendi
     Garcia (CA)
     Garcia (IL)
     Garcia (TX)
     Goldman (NY)
     Gomez
     Green, Al (TX)
     Hoyer
     Hoyle (OR)
     Huffman
     Ivey
     Jackson (IL)
     Jacobs
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Kamlager-Dove
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Krishnamoorthi
     Larsen (WA)
     Larson (CT)
     Latimer
     Lee (PA)
     Leger Fernandez
     Liccardo
     Lieu
     Lofgren
     Matsui
     McBath
     McClellan
     McCollum
     McGarvey
     McGovern
     McIver
     Meeks
     Menendez
     Meng
     Mfume
     Min
     Moore (WI)
     Morelle
     Mullin
     Nadler
     Neal
     Neguse
     Norcross
     Ocasio-Cortez
     Olszewski
     Omar
     Pallone
     Peters
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Pou
     Pressley
     Ramirez
     Randall
     Raskin
     Rivas
     Ross
     Ruiz
     Sanchez
     Scanlon
     Schakowsky
     Schneider
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Simon
     Smith (WA)
     Stansbury
     Stevens
     Strickland
     Takano
     Thanedar
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Tlaib
     Tokuda
     Tonko
     Torres (CA)
     Turner (TX)
     Underwood
     Vargas
     Veasey
     Velazquez
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters
     Watson Coleman
     Williams (GA)

                             NOT VOTING--15

     Beatty
     Davidson
     Diaz-Balart
     Grijalva
     Hunt
     McClain
     Moulton
     Mrvan
     Pelosi
     Pettersen
     Quigley
     Sherman
     Turner (OH)
     Waltz
     Wilson (FL)


                Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes 
remaining.

                              {time}  1100

  So the bill was passed.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
  Stated for:
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I was unable to vote today as the last 
vote timed out. Had I been present, I would have voted YEA on Roll Call 
No. 17, H.R. 30; Preventing Violence Against Women by Illegal Aliens 
Act.


                          Personal Explanation

  Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, due to the devastating wildfire affecting 
my district and Southern California, I was not present for today's 
vote. Had I been present, I would have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 16, 
Motion to Recommit H.R. 30, and NAY on Roll Call No. 17, H.R. 30.


                          personal explanation

  Ms. PETTERSEN. Mr. Speaker, due to travel restrictions related to my 
pregnancy, I was unable to travel to DC to vote. Had I been present, I 
would have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 16 and NAY on Roll Call No. 17.

[[Page H202]]

  



                          personal explanation

  Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, I was unable to vote on the House floor 
this morning because of a weather-related travel delay. Had I been 
present, I would have voted YEA on a Roll Call No. 16 and NAY on Roll 
Call No. 17.


                          personal explanation

   Mrs. McCLAIN. Mr. Speaker, due to a death in the family, I needed to 
attend the funeral proceedings and was unable to vote on the House 
floor. Had I been present, I would have voted NAY on Roll Call No. 16, 
Motion to Recommit, and YEA on Roll Call No. 17, Passage of H.R. 30.

                          ____________________

