[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 13 (Wednesday, January 22, 2025)]
[House]
[Pages H268-H276]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





   PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 471, FIX OUR FORESTS ACT, AND 
          PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF S. 5, LAKEN RILEY ACT

  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the 
Committee on Rules, I call up House Resolution 53 and ask for its 
immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:

                               H. Res. 53

       Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this 
     resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule 
     XVIII, declare the House resolved into the Committee of the 
     Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of 
     the bill (H.R. 471) to expedite under the National 
     Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and improve forest 
     management activities on National Forest System lands, on 
     public lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
     Management, and on Tribal lands to return resilience to 
     overgrown, fire-prone forested lands, and for other purposes. 
     The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All 
     points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. 
     General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
     exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair 
     and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural 
     Resources or their respective designees. After general debate 
     the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-
     minute rule. The bill shall be considered as read. All points 
     of order against provisions in the bill are waived. No 
     amendment to the bill shall be in order except those printed 
     in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
     resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the 
     order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
     designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall 
     be debatable for the time specified in the report equally 
     divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
     shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject 
     to a demand for division of the question in the House or in 
     the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 
     amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of 
     the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report 
     the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
     adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered 
     on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 
     intervening motion except one motion to recommit.
       Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
     order to consider in the House the bill (S. 5) to require the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security to take into custody aliens 
     who have been charged in the United States with theft, and 
     for other purposes. All points of order against consideration 
     of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. 
     All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
     waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered 
     on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
     without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate 
     equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
     minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their 
     respective designees; and (2) one motion to commit.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Georgia is recognized for 
1 hour.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate 
only, I yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as 
I may consume. During consideration of this resolution, all time 
yielded is for the purpose of debate only.


                             General Leave

  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent 
that all Members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their 
remarks.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Georgia?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as 
I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, last night the Rules Committee met and reported a rule, 
House Resolution 53, providing for consideration of two measures, the 
first of which is H.R. 471, the Fix Our Forests Act, to be considered 
under a structured rule.
  The rule provides for 1 hour of debate, equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking member of the Committee on Natural 
Resources, or their respective designees, provides for one motion to 
recommit, and makes two amendments in order.
  Additionally, the rule provides for consideration of S. 5, the Laken 
Riley Act, under a closed rule. The rule provides for 1 hour of debate, 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking member of the 
Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees, and provides 
for one motion to recommit.
  Mr. Speaker, we are here today to debate a rule on two timely pieces 
of legislation, beginning with H.R. 471, the bipartisan Fix Our Forests 
Act.
  Mr. Speaker, according to the U.S. Forest Service, more than 1 
billion acres of forest land are at risk of wildfire. Further, nearly 
one-fifth of all land overseen by the Federal Government is at high or 
very high risk of wildfire.
  This didn't happen overnight. It is the result of the buildup of 
bureaucratic red tape, burdensome regulations, and frivolous 
legislation that have prevented forest management activities like 
thinning, prescribed burning, and mechanical treatment.
  What we are left with are dangerous wildfires occurring at record 
levels and intensities. It doesn't have to be this way, though, Mr. 
Speaker.
  The Fix Our Forests Act takes the proper steps toward restoring 
forest health, increasing resiliency to catastrophic wildfires, and 
protecting communities. It does so by reforming NEPA to expedite 
environmental reviews, reducing frivolous lawsuits, and increasing the 
pace and scale of forest restoration projects.
  Additionally, H.R. 471 promotes Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
collaboration through the creation of a new fireshed center. It will 
provide agencies with new technologies and other critical tools which 
allow a quicker response to wildfires and the ability to implement the 
most vital forest management projects immediately.
  As we are unfortunately seeing more frequently, active forest 
management techniques and a focus on forest health are needed now more 
than ever. This bipartisan product is a step in the right direction.
  Mr. Speaker, the rule also provides for the consideration of S. 5, 
the Laken Riley Act, another bipartisan piece of legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, Laken Riley was murdered in my home State of Georgia in 
February of 2024 by a Venezuelan man who was illegally present in the 
United States. He previously crossed our southern border in September 
of 2022, where he was paroled and released for further processing.
  Between arriving here and committing his heinous act, the individual 
was arrested in New York and then again in Georgia for stealing from a 
Walmart. At the time of Laken Riley's murder, there was a bench warrant 
out for his arrest for failing to show up in court.
  Mr. Speaker, S. 5, the Laken Riley Act, as amended, requires the 
Department of Homeland Security to issue a detainer for any individual 
inadmissible to the United States who is charged with, is arrested for, 
convicted of, admits to having committed, or admits to committing acts 
which constitute the essential elements of any burglary, theft, 
larceny, shoplifting, assault of a law enforcement officer, or any 
crime that results in death or serious bodily injury to another person.
  Additionally, the bill grants the attorney general of a State the 
power to hold future administrations accountable by providing standing 
to bring civil action against Federal officials for the failure to 
enforce immigration statutes, including mandatory detention, individual 
parole authority, and visa sanctions.
  I commend my colleague from Georgia,  Mike Collins, for his work on 
this legislation. I send my condolences to Laken Riley's family.
  Mr. Speaker, I look forward to passing this rule. I look forward to 
passing this bill in the House for the third time and sending it to 
President Trump's desk.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me the customary 30 
minutes.
  Mr. Speaker, Republicans are bringing up a rule for two bills that 
will be debated on the floor this week. I look forward to that debate.
  I feel compelled to focus on this majority's screwed-up priorities 
which now include handing a get-out-of-free card to KKK members, Proud 
Boys, and other criminals who violently beat cops within an inch of 
their lives on January 6, 2021.

[[Page H269]]

  I thought this election was about lowering costs. What the hell 
happened? I thought it was about securing the border. I thought it was 
about making sure that our communities are safe, not whatever the hell 
these pardons are. These pardons are sick. They are offensive. They are 
un-American.
  I don't ever want to hear about law and order from the Republican 
side again, Mr. Speaker, when Republicans are letting criminals back on 
the streets, criminals who beat cops and tried to overthrow our 
government.
  There were 1,500 criminals, including over 600, who were charged with 
violently assaulting police officers. I am here to talk about that on 
the floor because I think it is disgusting. I think it is a disgrace.
  The people Trump let out broke through windows, beat up cops, and 
desecrated this beautiful symbol of our country, a building, by the 
way, that terrorists tried to destroy on September 11, 2001. They 
couldn't get here because they were stopped by the courageous people 
onboard flight 93.
  The crowd that Donald Trump sent here breached the building, and they 
attacked it in a way that had never been done. It was a horrible, awful 
thing that happened that day.
  I was in this Chamber. I was in this room. I was in your chair, Mr. 
Speaker. I took over for Speaker Pelosi when she was evacuated. I was 
one of the last people off the floor. I exited through those doors.
  I saw the faces of the rioters smashing windows to try to get at us. 
They wanted to kill people, kill police, kill us. I saw the walls they 
covered with feces. I saw them use flagpoles to beat police officers.
  I saw the fear in the eyes of my Republican colleagues as they 
cowered that day. I saw the bravery of law enforcement that protected 
us.
  Mr. Speaker, how the hell do the Republicans walk into this place 
every day? How does the majority look the police officers in the eye? 
How does the other side do it, knowing the people who tried to kill 
them will walk free, thanks to Donald Trump?
  These were brave officers who tried to hold the line against a 
violent mob. They were outnumbered, and they were overwhelmed because 
Donald Trump refused to lift a finger to help. The people he sent were 
not peaceful protestors. They were criminals, violent, angry, vicious 
people. They beat cops into the ground, leaving them bruised and 
battered.
  Donald Trump let them out of jail, and now he calls them heroes. He 
wants to invite them to the White House. We even had colleagues who 
went to a D.C. jail to celebrate their release and complained they 
weren't being let out fast enough.
  This is unbelievable. This is an insult to every police officer in 
this country. It is an insult to the families of the people who died 
because of what happened and an insult to the millions of Americans who 
believe in law and order, democracy, and decency.

                              {time}  1230

  Trump is abandoning the blue. He could have chosen to let out only 
the nonviolent offenders, but he let out people who beat the cops. That 
tells you all that you need to know.
  I think my Republican colleagues owe it to us during this debate, the 
first time we are debating on the floor since the pardons, to come down 
and explain themselves. They owe America an explanation because the 
people I am talking to think those pardons are shameful, disgusting, 
and wrong. Mr. Speaker, I will wait for an answer, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, as the gentleman knows, we 
are here to discuss H.R. 471 and S. 5.
  I yield 3 minutes to my colleague from Texas (Mr. Roy).
  Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, we are here to debate the rule. The rule that 
we have adopted will take up important legislation ensuring our forests 
are no longer such that they are going to catch fire, as we are seeing 
happen in California, and, importantly, to deal with the Laken Riley 
Act.
  This is the bill we passed off the House floor last year. It was 
rejected by the Democrat-led Senate. They refused to move it. We moved 
it last week here on the House floor and sent it over to this Senate, 
now a Republican Senate, after the voters spoke. The Senate amended it, 
made it, I believe, better, and sent it to the House, and now that 
amended bill is on the floor of the United States House of 
Representatives.
  Let's remember what we are talking about. This bill is named after 
Laken Riley. My friend from Georgia just discussed the facts involving 
the unfortunate death of Laken Riley at the hands of someone here 
illegally, someone here who had committed crimes.
  I had as my guest this weekend at the inauguration a woman named 
Alexis Nungaray, a wonderful woman from Houston, Texas, whose 13-year-
old little girl was murdered by people released into our country last 
year by the Biden administration.
  Fortunately, those policies are ending under President Trump, but 
here is the truth: Never again should any American, any Texan, any 
Georgian, have to deal with what was thrust upon them by the Biden 
administration in terms of the damage, despair, death, destruction, 
murders, and rapes that were perpetrated against the people we 
represent.
  This legislation would take a giant step forward to ensure that we 
can stop any future administration that is not just refusing to enforce 
Federal law but is actually abusing Federal law to endanger our people, 
our citizens who we represent.
  This legislation would simply say that we must detain some of the 
worst people who are here illegally and ensure that they are not 
released. We are talking about serious bodily injury. We are talking 
about things that result in death, assaulting police officers. That is 
all in this legislation.
  In addition, in this legislation is an important provision that I was 
proud to introduce with my friend Dan Bishop from North Carolina in the 
SUE Act to ensure that attorneys general can sue the Federal Government 
when the Federal Government is failing to do its job.
  Imagine the ability of Texas, North Carolina, or Georgia, for my 
colleagues to be able to say: Do you know what? Enough.
  The Federal Government does not get to ignore its fundamental duty 
under the Constitution to defend its citizens, and the attorneys 
general of States ought to be able to stop the Federal Government when 
it is endangering our people. This law would do that.
  This law would honor the memory of Laken Riley. It would honor the 
memory of Jocelyn Nungaray. It would honor the memory of the countless 
Americans who have lost their loved ones and have been dealing with the 
scourge of illegal immigration, which is endangering our people. I 
proudly support it, and I proudly support this rule.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I think it takes a lot of nerve to come down here and 
talk to us about law and order when the gentleman who just spoke was at 
the D.C. jail celebrating the release of people who attacked and beat 
cops here in this Capitol, who almost killed them. Some died as a 
result of their injuries.
  I know my Republican friends don't want to defend these pardons 
because what the President did was indefensible. He couldn't release 
these people who attacked our police officers quick enough. He couldn't 
release them quick enough.
  The Speaker of this House was asked about January 6, about January 6 
defendants like Daniel Rodriguez, who pled guilty to viciously injuring 
a police officer with a weapon. The Speaker said: ``It is not my place. 
It is the President's sole decision, and he made a decision, so I stand 
with him on it.''
  It is not your place? It is not your place? Mr. Speaker, it literally 
is your place. It is your place.
  Mr. Speaker, you preside over this House. You hire the Sergeant at 
Arms. You oversee the captain of the Capitol Police force. If it isn't 
your place, then who the hell's place is it?
  I have a radical idea. How about you stand with the officers who were 
beaten and bloodied protecting you rather than stand with a reality TV 
wannabe dictator?
  If your response to the question about the pardons of people who 
attacked and injured the officers that you oversee and are responsible 
for is ``it is not my place,'' my question to you is this: Who do you 
work for? Do

[[Page H270]]

you think you work for President Trump?
  I would suggest you do some soul searching, and while you are at it, 
maybe reread the United States Constitution because you don't work for 
Donald Trump. You are the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and 
it damn sure is your place to have an opinion on the people who beat 
the officers who protect you and this institution having no 
consequences for beating men and women who protect this country.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. DesJarlais). Members are reminded to 
refrain from engaging in personalities toward the President and to 
direct their remarks to the Chair.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Hurd).
  Mr. HURD of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Westerman for his 
commonsense piece of legislation that we are discussing this afternoon.
  This is a new day in America. The days of forestry mismanagement are 
coming to an end. For far too along, our national forests and the 
communities that surround them have been at the mercy of unelected 
Federal bureaucrats who have become beholden to misguided environmental 
policies.
  My district in Colorado is home to 6 of the State's 11 national 
forests. We have witnessed the destructive force of poor forestry 
management firsthand. The Multiple-Use Sustained-Yield Act of 1960 
mandates that national forests be managed for multiple use. This 
includes outdoor recreation and timber management.
  Washington, D.C., has turned our national forests into national parks 
by bringing timber management to a standstill and setting the stage for 
the terrible disasters like those we have seen in California. We can no 
longer afford to ignore the safety and well-being of our communities.
  The Fix Our Forests Act lets the Forest Service do its job to restore 
forest health, increase wildfire resiliency, and protect communities 
like those in Colorado's Third District.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this 
legislation, and I ask my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the rule and on 
final passage.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, will anybody on that side come down and 
defend these pardons, which are indefensible?
  In any event, Mr. Speaker, I am going to urge that we defeat the 
previous question, and I will offer an amendment to the rule to make in 
order amendment No. 1 to provide a permanent pay fix for Federal 
wildland firefighters. We tried to get this made in order in the Rules 
Committee, but the Republicans said no to better benefits and a pay 
raise for the people who are fighting these fires.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to insert the text of my 
amendment into the Record, along with any extraneous material, 
immediately prior to the vote on the previous question.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Massachusetts?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Huffman) to discuss this proposal.
  Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I associate myself with Mr. McGovern's 
remarks condemning the unconscionable silence we hear across the aisle 
in the wake of these pardons of violent criminals, seditionist thugs 
who should never be pardoned or celebrated. Yet, that is exactly what 
is happening even here in the building that they desecrated.
  Turning to the bill at hand, one thing I hope we can agree on, which 
is clearly missing from this bill, is a permanent pay raise for Federal 
wildland firefighters. These brave men and women put everything on the 
line. They deserve to be paid fair wages for the long hours, 
dedication, and sacrifice they are putting out.
  The good news is that under that Democratic leadership, Congress 
approved a pay raise in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. The 
bad news is the authority to continue paying Federal wildland 
firefighters the wages they deserve is about to run out because of 
partisan politics.
  Thanks to Republicans, the entire Federal Government is operating 
under a continuing resolution, a short-term patch that will expire 
March 23.
  Good luck hiring a Federal firefighter right now, being underpaid to 
start with and having a looming pay cut because of partisan politics 
just weeks away.
  Fixing this should be an unequivocal bipartisan priority, and we have 
an opportunity to do it right now. That is why two of my Democratic 
colleagues filed amendments to address these issues. Unfortunately, the 
Rules Committee is refusing to allow a vote on the amendments from 
Representative Neguse and Representative Lee. That is a shame.
  A permanent pay raise is not merely a matter of fairness. It is a 
recognition of the invaluable service these frontline heroes provide. 
It is an investment in their future, ensuring they can provide for 
their families and have peace of mind knowing their sacrifices are 
valued.
  Instead of rushing this so-called Fix Our Forests Act to the floor to 
exploit a disaster in Los Angeles, we should be working together to 
address a real problem and doing right by our wildland firefighters.

  In a few moments, Republicans will be moving the previous question to 
end debate on the rule. I urge my colleagues to vote against the 
previous question because doing so, voting no, will allow Mr. Neguse's 
Tim's Act to be brought forward instead of the Fix Our Forests Act, 
ensuring that Federal wildland firefighters are getting the pay and 
benefits they deserve.
  That is the bill we should be considering instead of a bill that 
rolls back our environmental laws and does nothing to help Los Angeles.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I, too, am concerned about 
some of the pardons that were issued. I can't fathom what was going 
through President Biden's mind when he pardoned his family members and 
any of his political allies this past week. It is something that I 
think does merit much more discussion on how someone just gives family 
members and political allies a blanket pardon when they had not yet 
been charged for the crimes they had committed.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to my colleague from Michigan (Mr. 
Walberg).
  Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the rule and the 
underlying bill, the Fix Our Forests Act.
  Mr. Speaker, first and foremost, I express my sincere condolences to 
the families who have lost loved ones, homes, and history in the tragic 
fires in southern California. Our hearts break for them, and our 
prayers continue to be with them.
  Today, we have an opportunity to help mitigate future forest fires 
and protect not only homes and communities but critical wildlife 
habitat.
  Proper forest management can, in fact, help prevent forest fires. If 
we follow the science, as this legislation does, we can identify the 
top areas of concern and take action to address those firesheds.
  This bipartisan legislation will empower States and local, Tribal, 
and private partners to do critical wildfire prevention activities 
necessary to prevent the tragic fires we have just seen recently and in 
recent years. I also note that the legislation does not waive a single 
environmental law.
  Mr. Speaker, I am a conservationist. Coming from the Great Lakes, the 
State of Michigan, I know the importance of clean air and clean water. 
What this bill does is streamline fragmented Federal programs and makes 
the existing tools more flexible and efficient.
  By passing this legislation, we can help protect millions of acres 
from the threat of wildfires, save lives and livelihoods and history, 
and protect wildlife habitat for generations to come.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Westerman for his leadership on this 
critical legislation, and I urge support for the rule and the 
underlying bill.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  The gentleman from Georgia just changed topics so quickly back to 
Biden that I have whiplash. I think I need a neck brace to be able to 
follow his logic here.
  Spare me your comparisons of Biden pardoning his family and Trump 
pardoning violent criminals who attacked police officers on January 6.

[[Page H271]]

  Do you know what? You can be against both of those actions, but they 
are not the same and shouldn't even be mentioned in the same 
conversation.

                              {time}  1245

  Let me tell you about the people whom you continue to want to defend 
and who have been pardoned.
  Here are some of the convicted felons that Trump set free on Monday:
  Steve Cappuccio, convicted of six felonies, including assaulting a 
police officer. He ripped off Metro Police Officer Daniel Hodges' gas 
mask. At one point during the assault he said: How do you like me now, 
mother f'er?
  He was pardoned by Donald Trump.
  David Dempsey, sentenced to 20 years. He stomped on police officers' 
heads, struck an officer in the head with a metal crutch, and attacked 
police with pepper spray and broken pieces of furniture. He also 
attacked a fellow rioter who was trying to disarm him, and he has a 
demonstrated history of political violence.
  He was pardoned by Donald Trump.
  Enrique Tarrio, sentenced to 22 years. He is a former national leader 
of the Proud Boys, a domestic terrorist far-right militia. He was found 
guilty of seditious conspiracy. He helped plan the January 6 attack and 
made sure it was violent.
  He was pardoned by Donald Trump.
  Guy Reffitt, sentenced to 7 years and 3 months. He brought a gun, zip 
ties, body armor, and a helmet to the Capitol, presumably to try to 
take hostages in an attempt to keep Trump in office after he lost.
  He was pardoned by Donald Trump.
  Daniel Joseph ``DJ'' Rodriguez, sentenced to over 12 years. He 
repeatedly tased Officer Mike Fanone, shocking him in the neck multiple 
times and causing him to lose consciousness and have a heart attack.
  He was pardoned by Donald Trump.
  Patrick McCaughey III, sentenced to 90 months. He assaulted police, 
beat their faces and bodies with riot shields and batons that he stole 
from them.
  He was pardoned by Donald Trump.
  Peter Francis Stager, sentenced to 4 years and 4 months. He pled 
guilty to assaulting an officer with a deadly weapon. He is on video 
declaring: ``Every single one of those Capitol law enforcement 
officers, death is the remedy.'' Those were his words: That is the only 
remedy they get.
  He was pardoned by Donald Trump.
  Julian Khater, sentenced to 6 years, attacked Officer Brian Sicknick 
with pepper spray. Officer Sicknick died the next day after suffering 
two strokes.
  Edward ``Jake'' Lang was on trial for 11 charges, including swinging 
a baseball bat at officers. In addition to his January 6 charges, he 
began organizing a nationwide network of armed militias in all 50 
States.
  He was pardoned by Donald Trump.
  Mr. Speaker, the criminals pardoned were not tourists. They were not 
peaceful. They were violent criminals.
  Here is just one example: Daniel Ball's case was dismissed today, and 
he was released from jail.
  Why was he in jail?
  He was being held in pretrial detention because of what a judge 
described as ``some of the most violent and serious offenses of any of 
the charges being brought against participants in the January 6 
events.'' That includes hurling an explosive device into the lower west 
terrace tunnel of the Capitol, the scene of some of the most egregious 
violence against police that day.
  Some officers suffered from hearing loss for months.
  Get this, Mr. Speaker: Mr. Ball has already been arrested again on 
Federal gun charges, and he was already a two-time convicted felon for 
domestic violence battery by strangulation and resisting law 
enforcement with violence.
  Yes, he was already arrested again. This is whom the President 
pardoned. This is why my Republican friends are silent. It is because 
this is indefensible.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to insert in the Record a 
Politico article titled: ``Trump freed a January 6 defendant charged 
with assaulting police. DOJ had him arrested again on a gun charge.''
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Massachusetts?
  There was no objection.

                   [From the POLITICO, Jan. 22, 2025]

Trump Freed a Jan. 6 Defendant Charged With Assualting Police. DOJ had 
                   him Arrested Again on a Gun Charge

                            (By KYLE CHENEY)

       A Jan. 6 defendant whose felony assault charges were 
     dismissed a day earlier was arrested Wednesday on federal gun 
     charges that have been pending for nearly two years in 
     Florida.
       Daniel Ball, one of the hundreds charged with violence on 
     Jan. 6, 2021, aimed at police, was among the members of the 
     mob whose charges were dismissed at the behest of President 
     Donald Trump. Trump on Monday pardoned more than 1,000 people 
     who stormed the Capitol that day and ordered the Justice 
     Department to drop hundreds of pending cases.
       Ball was being held in pretrial detention in Washington, 
     D.C., because of what a magistrate judge described as ``some 
     of the most violent and serious offenses of any of the 
     charges being brought against participants in the January 6 
     events.''
       Among them, Ball is charged with hurling an ``explosive 
     device'' into the packed Lower West Terrace tunnel of the 
     Capitol, the scene of some of the most egregious violence 
     against police that day.
       ``The explosion allegedly disoriented officers and caused 
     hearing loss--which for some of the officers lasted months,'' 
     Magistrate Judge Robin Meriweather noted. ``Defendant also 
     allegedly threw a large piece of wood into the line of 
     officers protecting the Capitol.''
       Ball's charges were dismissed by U.S. District Judge 
     Rudolph Contreras on Tuesday after Trump's directive.
       But Ball's charges for being a felon in possession of a 
     firearm remained pending and unconnected to his Jan. 6 case. 
     According to that indictment, Ball has previously been 
     convicted of domestic violence battery by strangulation in 
     June 2017, resisting law enforcement with violence and 
     battery of a law enforcement officer in October 2021.
       It's unclear if U.S. marshals executed the arrest warrant 
     on Ball prior to his release on the Jan. 6 charges. However, 
     it's the first docketed federal criminal case in Washington 
     since Trump's inauguration.

  Mr. McGOVERN. All these people were pardoned, and not a word from the 
other side.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as 
I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I don't have a whole number, the total number, but how 
many murderers had their sentences commuted by then-President Joe 
Biden?
  Do you know? How many was it?
  Let's see, Biden commuted the sentences for 2,500 drug offenders and 
clemency for 37 of the 40 people on death row, 1 of whom shot two FBI 
agents , if I am not mistaken.
  So you are pretty quick to point the finger at the gentleman who was 
the 45th and now the 47th President of the United States. I would 
suggest to you that Donald Trump is the President of the United States 
today and sitting in the White House today because your policies are so 
bad because you put illegal immigrants and their rights above the 
rights of American citizens.
  So, again, Biden commuted a lot of sentences for a lot of drug 
offenders and a lot of people who committed murder. So I don't think 
you should be pointing the finger at what the 47th President of the 
United States did when the 46th President of the United States is the 
one who let people who shot FBI agents out.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to direct their remarks 
to the Chair.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, the best we get from the gentleman is whataboutism. He 
can criticize President Biden, but he can't bring himself to criticize 
President Trump. He is afraid, and that is the problem.
  All my Republican friends are in fear that if they question anything 
that this guy does that somehow they themselves will be punished.
  However, he didn't even get his facts right on the Peltier issue. The 
former U.S. Attorney who prosecuted Mr. Peltier wrote in a letter to 
President Biden: ``The prosecution and continued incarceration of Mr. 
Peltier was and is unjust.''
  He also said: ``I believe that a grant of executive clemency would 
serve the best interest of justice and the best interest of our 
country.''
  Again, this is coming from the man who prosecuted him.
  He also said that we were not able to prove that Mr. Peltier 
personally committed any of the offenses that happened on the Pine 
Ridge Reservation.

[[Page H272]]

  Contrast that, Mr. Speaker, with the Nation's seeing the criminals 
that Trump pardoned assault cops on live TV.
  Please, I ask my friends across the aisle: Find me one prosecutor of 
one of the cop beaters whom Trump pardoned who regret their conviction.
  Which one of Trump's pardoned criminals have already served nearly 50 
years in prison?
  By the way, Peltier is 80 years old, and he is dying. He was not 
pardoned, by the way. The gentleman is wrong on that. His sentence was 
commuted so he could die at home with an ankle bracelet on. This was 
done only after faith and human rights leaders like the Dalai Lama, 
Nelson Mandela, and Pope Francis begged for release for years.
  So to say that this is remotely the same is a joke.
  Why can't my Republican friends just say that what Trump did by 
pardoning vicious, violent criminals was wrong?
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from New Mexico 
(Ms. Leger Fernandez), who is a member of the Rules Committee.
  Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, we should absolutely hold 
immigrants accountable when they commit a crime, especially when it is 
against a law enforcement officer. However, there are already existing 
laws for the detention and deportation of immigrants who commit violent 
crimes.
  What we are talking about today is that we must hold convicted felons 
accountable for attacking our very own Capitol Police. In this very 
building, January 6 insurrectionists brutally attacked our Capitol 
Police and other law enforcement officers. More than 140 cops suffered 
injuries and went to the hospital. Five police officers died. President 
Trump just pardoned the violent thugs who were convicted of those 
attacks. It is ``shameless,'' ``sin verguenza,'' as we say in Spanish. 
If Republicans were truly concerned about attacks on law enforcement, 
they would denounce those pardons.
  We just heard about the violence that was inflicted and about the 
violent offenders who committed them. I am asking my Republican 
colleagues to also keep in mind the faces and the names of those who 
were brutally attacked.
  When the majority walked into this building and they walked past 
those Capitol Police who are protecting them today, do they tell them: 
Good morning?
  They should also tell them: I am sorry. I am sorry that my President 
pardoned the people who beat you. I am sorry, and I denounce those 
attacks because I honor you.
  However, they do not seem to have the courage to say I am sorry to 
those police officers.
  It is hypocrisy to say that they care about law enforcement if they 
don't denounce those pardons.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentlewoman from New Mexico.
  Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Those violent criminals whom Trump described as 
peaceful and loving are being released into our communities. We have 
seen the videos of the attacks, the shouts, and the pounding of Officer 
Fanone, and so many others, and their cries for help. It was on video. 
Americans remember it.
  I ask my colleagues to remember it and to see those videos. The 
convicted attackers were not peaceful.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to denounce the pardons and to vote 
against this rule.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, this rule is about the 
Laken Riley Act and the Fix Our Forests Act. I hope people vote for it, 
and I reserve the balance of my time.

  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, not a word about what happened in this place on January 
6. They just can't bring themselves to do it.
  Mr. Speaker, I have a question, and that is: Why won't you install 
the plaque honoring the brave members of law enforcement who protected 
us on January 6?
  A lot of my colleagues don't know this, but Congress actually passed 
a law, Public Law 117-103, on requiring the plaque to be installed on 
the west front of the Capitol before March 15, 2023.
  So for 21 months now, almost 2 years, this Speaker has refused to 
honor the Capitol Police and other law enforcement by installing the 
plaque that we all voted for.
  I know it exists, Mr. Speaker. I have actually seen photos of it, so 
I know it exists. I have seen photos.
  Why the delay?
  Why won't you put it up, Mr. Speaker?
  I think I know why. It is because Republicans don't want to honor the 
police who were hurt and who died after that attack.
  Maybe the gentleman from Georgia can explain why the plaque is yet to 
be installed. I won't hold my breath, but instead let me read the 
plaque, Mr. Speaker, so Speaker Johnson and others know what it says.
  It says: ``On behalf of a grateful Congress, this plaque honors the 
extraordinary individuals who bravely protected and defended this 
symbol of democracy on January 6, 2021. Their heroism will never be 
forgotten.''
  Because Republicans will not, I want to take a moment to thank all 
the agencies that are listed on this plaque who are being disrespected 
by this leadership by refusing to honor them.
  I want to say thank you to: the United States Capitol Police. I also 
want to thank the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of 
Columbia; Arlington County Police Department in Virginia; Fairfax 
County Police Department in Virginia; Maryland Department of State 
Police; Metro Transit Police Department; Metropolitan Washington 
Airports Authority, Montgomery County Department of Police in Maryland; 
New Jersey State Police; Prince George's County Police Department in 
Maryland; Prince William County Police Department in Virginia; Virginia 
State Police; Bureau of Alcohol, Firearms, and Explosives; Department 
of Health and Human Services; Department of Homeland Security; Federal 
Bureau of Investigation; National Guard Bureau; Pentagon Force 
Protection Agency; United States Marshals Service; United States Park 
Police; and United States Secret Service.
  I say thank you to all of the officers from all of those agencies who 
were here that day to protect our country and to protect all of us. I 
appreciate you, and you should know that a lot of Americans have your 
back, even if this President and the Republicans do not.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I, too, want to thank all 
of the law enforcement and first responders who protect this country on 
a daily basis, and, Mr. Speaker, we know the polls show that a majority 
of them voted for Donald Trump.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I would just say to the gentleman that to 
say what he just said but not reference what happened that day and not 
acknowledge the pain that has caused so many families and so many 
people whom we work with every day to protect us, I have to say that is 
a little bit much.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania 
(Ms. Scanlon), who is a distinguished member of the Rules Committee.

                              {time}  1300

  Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, it is disappointing but unsurprising that 
House Republicans have made it their top priority in their new Congress 
to pass a bill, H.R. 28, designed to generate headlines rather than 
solve actual problems.
  Mr. Speaker, I have spoken on the serious flaws in this bill several 
times, including last night in the Rules Committee, but it is worth 
noting that since the House last considered this bill, it has been 
altered with an increasingly ironic amendment.
  The amendment added mandatory imprisonment for people accused of 
assaulting a law enforcement officer. I say this amendment is ironic 
because yesterday, just hours after taking the oath of office, 
President Trump granted mass pardons for over 1,200 January 6 MAGA 
rioters who had been convicted. President Trump also ordered the 
dismissal of cases of hundreds more, including hundreds who assaulted 
police officers with bats, poles,

[[Page H273]]

bear spray, explosives, and other weapons.
  Over 140 officers were hurt that day, with injuries including crushed 
spinal disks, traumatic brain injuries, heart attacks, and strokes, 
while they bravely defended the Capitol and those who work here. Some 
lost their lives or became permanently disabled after sustaining 
injuries and horrific trauma at the hands of fellow citizens during the 
MAGA attack on January 6, 2021.
  In issuing those pardons, President Trump put the Presidential seal 
of approval on political violence, so long as it supports him, and even 
if it is directed against law enforcement.
  Just to be clear, there was no case-by-case review of these 
convictions. This is a blanket pardon. We are already seeing the fruits 
of that incredibly dangerous act of pardoning the people who attacked 
the Constitution, this Capitol, and the police officers and people 
within it.
  Among those attackers are dangerous felons who are not chastened or 
remorseful or reformed. They feel emboldened. One of them, Daniel 
Charles Ball, has just been rearrested, one day after his January 6 
case was dismissed, on new weapons charges.
  Another, the infamous MAGA supporter known as the QAnon Shaman, 
tweeted Monday: I got a pardon baby. Thank you, President Trump. Now I 
am going to buy some motha f'ing guns.
  These pardons show an utter disrespect for law enforcement, our 
criminal justice system, and the rule of law. They have been rightly 
condemned by the International Association of Chiefs of Police and the 
Fraternal Order of Police, among other police organizations, but 
virtually every House Republican has turned their backs on our police 
and cowered in silence rather than denounce the shameful decision to 
put those criminals back on our streets.
  Mr. Speaker, I continue to oppose this rule and this bill.
  I seek unanimous consent to include in the Record the Joint 
International Association of Chiefs of Police and The Fraternal Order 
of Police Statement on the Recent Presidential Pardons dated January 
21, 2025.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania?
  There was no objection.

      Joint IACP-FOP Statement on the Recent Presidential Pardons

       The International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) 
     and the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP) have had long 
     standing and positive relationships with both President Trump 
     and President Biden and have greatly appreciated their 
     support of the policing profession. However, the IACP and FOP 
     are deeply discouraged by the recent pardons and commutations 
     granted by both the Biden and Trump Administrations to 
     individuals convicted of killing or assaulting law 
     enforcement officers. The IACP and FOP firmly believe that 
     those convicted of such crimes should serve their full 
     sentences.
       Crimes against law enforcement are not just attacks on 
     individuals or public safety--they are attacks on society and 
     undermine the rule of law. Allowing those convicted of these 
     crimes to be released early diminishes accountability and 
     devalues the sacrifices made by courageous law enforcement 
     officers and their families.
       When perpetrators of crimes, especially serious crimes, are 
     not held fully accountable, it sends a dangerous message that 
     the consequences for attacking law enforcement are not 
     severe, potentially emboldening others to commit similar acts 
     of violence.
       The IACP and FOP call on policymakers, judicial 
     authorities, and community leaders to ensure that justice is 
     upheld by enforcing full sentences, especially in cases 
     involving violence against law enforcement. This approach 
     reaffirms our commitment to the rule of law, public safety, 
     and the protection of those who risk their lives for our 
     communities.

  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is 
remaining.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Massachusetts has 5 
minutes remaining.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to include in the 
Record an article from The Wall Street Journal today entitled: ``Trump 
Pardons the Jan. 6 Cop Beaters.''
  The editorial reads: ``Law and order? Back the blue? What happened to 
that GOP?''
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Massachusetts?
  There was no objection.

             [From the Wall Street Journal, Jan. 21, 2025]

  Trump Pardons the Jan. 6 Cop Beaters--Law and Order? Back the Blue? 
                       What happened to that GOP?

                        (By The Editorial Board)

       Republicans are busy denouncing President Biden's pre-
     emptive pardons for his family and political allies, and 
     deservedly so. But then it's a shame you don't hear many, if 
     any, ruing President Trump's proclamation to pardon 
     unconditionally nearly all of the people who rioted at the 
     U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. This includes those convicted 
     of bludgeoning, chemical spraying, and electroshocking police 
     to try to keep Mr. Trump in power. Now he's springing them 
     from prison.
       This is a rotten message from a President about political 
     violence done on his behalf, and it's a bait and switch. 
     Asked about Jan. 6 pardons in late November, Mr. Trump 
     projected caution. ``I'm going to do case-by-case, and if 
     they were nonviolent, I think they've been greatly 
     punished,'' he said. ``We're going to look at each individual 
     case.''
       Taking cues from the boss, last week Vice President JD 
     Vance drew a clear line: ``If you committed violence on that 
     day, obviously you shouldn't be pardoned.''
       So much for that. The President's clemency proclamation 
     commutes prison sentences to time served for 14 named people, 
     including prominent leaders of the Proud Boys and Oath 
     Keepers, who were organized and ready for violence. Then Mr. 
     Trump tries to wipe Jan. 6 clean, with ``a full, complete and 
     unconditional pardon to all other individuals.'' The conceit 
     is that there are hundreds of polite Trump supporters who 
     ended up in the wrong place that day and have since rotted in 
     jail.
       Out of roughly 1,600 cases filed by the feds, more than a 
     third included accusations of ``assaulting, resisting, or 
     impeding law enforcement.'' The U.S. Attorney's office said 
     it declined ``hundreds'' of prosecutions against people whose 
     only offense was entering restricted grounds near the 
     Capitol. Of the 1,100 sentences handed down by this year, 
     more than a third didn't involve prison time. The rioters who 
     did get jail often were charged with brutal violence, 
     including:
       Daniel Joseph ``DJ'' Rodriguez, sentenced to 151 months, 
     who can be seen on video, federal prosecutors said, deploying 
     an ``electroshock weapon'' against a policeman who was 
     dragged out of the defensive line, by ``plunging it into the 
     officer's neck.'' The night before, he promised in a MAGA 
     chat group: ``There will be blood.''
       William Lewis, given 37 months, ``sprayed streams of Wasp 
     and Hornet Killer spray at multiple police officers on four 
     distinct occasions,'' forcing several to flee the line and 
     ``seek treatment for their eyes.''
       Isreal James Easterday, 30 months, blasted a cop ``in the 
     face with pepper spray at point-blank range,'' after which 
     the officer ``collapsed and temporarily lost consciousness, 
     which enabled another rioter to steal his baton.''
       Thomas Andrew Casselman, 40 months, hit multiple officers 
     ``near their faces'' with pepper spray. His later internet 
     searches included, ``The statute of limitations for assault 
     on a police officer.''
       Curtis Davis, 24 months, punched two police officers in the 
     head. That night he filmed a video of his fist, in which he 
     bragged: ``Them knuckles right there, from one of those m--
     faces at the Capitol.''
       Ronald Colton McAbee, 70 months, hit a cop while wearing 
     ``reinforced brass knuckle gloves,'' and he held one down on 
     the ground as ``other rioters assailed the officer for over 
     20 seconds,'' causing a concussion.
       Michael Joseph Foy, 40 months, brought a hockey stick with 
     a TRUMP 2020 flag attached, which he swung ``over his head 
     and downward at police officers as if he were chopping 
     wood.''
       There are more like this, which everyone understood on Jan. 
     6 and shortly afterward. ``There is nothing patriotic about 
     what is occurring on Capitol Hill,'' one GOP official 
     tweeted. ``This is 3rd world style anti-American anarchy.'' 
     That was Marco Rubio, now Mr. Trump's Secretary of State. He 
     was right. What happened that day is a stain on Mr. Trump's 
     legacy. By setting free the cop beaters, the President adds 
     another.

  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman thanking, in general, our law 
enforcement officials, but it is troubling that he can't bring himself 
to address what happened that day. My Republican friends are afraid to 
debate and to discuss what happened on that day. It is so disappointing 
in so many ways.
  Mr. Speaker, January 6 was not a tourist day. It was a horrific 
attack on the police who protect our country. I saw with my own eyes 
the officers with blood on their faces, battered and bruised from 
fighting off a violent mob. So many of them had to go to the hospital 
to get stitches and to get medical care. They were severely wounded.
  I will never forget the smell of tear gas or the horror on people's 
faces as we were rushed out of this Chamber. I watched from the 
Speaker's chair as

[[Page H274]]

Republicans cowered and hid for their lives that day, letting the 
Capitol Police run to the front lines to protect them.
  On Monday, Republicans let out the violent political extremists who 
did all of this. Republicans let them back out onto the streets.
  Trump called them patriots. He called them hostages. There is nothing 
patriotic about beating police officers with flagpoles, Mr. Speaker.
  The patriots were the law enforcement officers who protected this 
institution. There is nothing patriotic about the KKK, the Oath 
Keepers, or the Proud Boys. Trump pardoned them.
  There is nothing patriotic about viciously assaulting police 
officers. There is nothing patriotic about bashing heads and breaking 
into the Capitol Building because of a deranged fantasy about 
overthrowing the government. There is nothing patriotic about any of 
that, but Donald Trump doesn't care. He pardoned them because he only 
cares about himself.
  Mr. Speaker, where is your outrage over any of this? Where is your 
spine? To be silent after these pardons is terrible, and it speaks for 
itself.
  As for me, I stand with the police officers who were here that day. I 
stand with the officers who were trying to maintain law and order. I 
stand with the people who are disgusted that Donald Trump is opening 
the doors and letting out the criminals who attacked them.
  I don't hear a single Republican brave enough to come to this floor 
and condemn these pardons. I don't hear a single one. It is cowardice. 
It is hypocrisy. They are rewarding political violence and setting the 
stage for much, much worse things to come.
  My colleagues heard Representative Scanlon. Some of them are bragging 
about how they are going out to buy more guns. What is that about? 
Violent, dangerous people who beat cops, who tried to kill Members of 
this body, and who tried to kill our staff were let back out onto the 
streets by Donald Trump.
  It is a disgrace. The Speaker should be ashamed. The Speaker owns 
this now. The Speaker knows that, and the law enforcement officers of 
this country know it, too. They are watching, and they will remember.
  There is a great conservative, Edmund Burke, who once said that all 
that it takes for evil to triumph is for good men and women to do 
nothing, to be silent.
  Well, I, for one, am not going to be silent. We are going to continue 
to talk about this until we get it right in this country and this 
Chamber.
  I can't speak for my friends on the other side of the aisle, but if 
today is any indication, Republicans are just hoping and praying that 
it goes away and that everybody forgets. We will never forget what 
happened here on January 6. The American people won't ever forget.
  The American people did not vote for this. They did not vote to let 
these violent criminals back onto the streets.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance 
of my time to close.
  Mr. Speaker, this vote is on the rule to advance H.R. 471, the Fix 
Our Forests Act; and S. 5, the Laken Riley Act, regardless of what you 
have listened to if you have been watching this over the last hour.
  This week, the House has the ability to advance significant 
legislation in the House of Representatives. That is our job.
  The Fix Our Forests Act can mark a return to active forest management 
and return resilience to overgrown, fire-prone forested lands, and I 
would be willing to bet that that piece of legislation probably passes 
in a bipartisan manner.
  The Laken Riley Act will ensure that criminals who illegally cross 
our borders and endanger our communities are detained and deported 
while also giving States the ability to bring civil action against any 
Federal official in the future should they refuse to enforce our 
country's immigration laws and put American citizens at risk by 
refusing to do so.
  Again, I thank the law enforcement officers, the Capitol Police 
specifically, and all those who take care of us on a daily basis.
  I send my condolences to Laken Riley's family.
  Mr. Speaker, I look forward to voting ``yes'' on this bill and 
sending it to President Trump's desk for his signature. I urge my 
colleagues to join me in voting ``yes'' on the previous question, 
``yes'' on the rule, and then I hope Members will vote ``yes'' on the 
legislation. The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as 
follows:

  An Amendment to H. Res. 53 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

       At the end of the resolution, add the following:
       Sec. 3. Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
     resolution, the amendment specified in section 4 shall be in 
     order as though printed as the last amendment of the report 
     of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution if 
     offered by Representative Lee of Nevada or a designee. That 
     amendment shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided 
     and controlled by the proponent and opponent.
       Sec. 4. The amendment referred to in section 3 is as 
     follows:
       Strike all after the enacting clause and insert:

            TITLE V--RATES OF PAY FOR WILDLAND FIREFIGHTERS

     SEC. 501. SPECIAL BASE RATES OF PAY FOR WILDLAND 
                   FIREFIGHTERS.

       (a) In general.--Subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 
     5332 the following:

     ``Sec. 5332A. SPECIAL BASE RATES OF PAY FOR WILDLAND 
                   FIREFIGHTERS

       ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
       ``(1) the term `firefighter' means an employee who--
       ``(A) is a firefighter within the meaning of section 8331 
     (21) or section 8401(14);
       ``(B) in the case of an employee who holds a supervisory or 
     administrative position and is subject to subchapter III of 
     chapter 83, but who does not qualify to be considered a 
     firefighter within the meaning of section 8331 (21), would 
     otherwise qualify if the employee had transferred directly to 
     that position after serving as a firefighter within the 
     meaning of that section;
       ``(C) in the case of an employee who holds a supervisory or 
     administrative position and is subject to chapter 84, but who 
     does not qualify to be considered a firefighter within the 
     meaning of section 8401(14), would otherwise qualify if the 
     employee had transferred directly to that position after 
     performing duties described in section 8401(14)(A) for at 
     least 3 years; or
       ``(D) in the case of an employee who is not subject to 
     subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84, holds a position 
     that the Office of Personnel Management determines would 
     satisfy subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) if the employee were 
     subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84;
       ``(2) the term `General Schedule base rate' means an annual 
     rate of basic pay established under section 5332 before any 
     additions, such as a locality-based comparability payment 
     under section 5304 or 5304a or a special rate supplement 
     under section 5305;
       ``(3) the term `special base rate' means an annual rate of 
     basic pay payable to a wildland firefighter, before any 
     additions or reductions, that replaces the General Schedule 
     base rate otherwise applicable to the wildland firefighter 
     and that is administered in the same manner as a General 
     Schedule base rate; and
       ``(4) the term `wildland firefighter' means a firefighter--
       ``(A) who is employed by the Forest Service or the 
     Department of the Interior; and
       ``(B) the duties of the position of whom primarily relate 
     to fires occurring in forests, range lands, or other 
     wildlands, as opposed to structural fires.
       ``(b) Special base rates of pay.--
       ``(1) Entitlement to Special Rate.--Notwithstanding section 
     5332, a wildland firefighter is entitled to a special base 
     rate at grades 1 through 15, which shall--
       ``(A) replace the otherwise applicable General Schedule 
     base rate for the wildland firefighter;
       ``(B) be basic pay for all purposes, including the purpose 
     of computing a locality-based comparability payment under 
     section 5304 or 5304a; and
       ``(C) be computed as described in paragraph (2) and 
     adjusted at the time of adjustments in the General Schedule.
       ``(2) Computation.--
       ``(A) In general.--The special base rate for a wildland 
     firefighter shall be derived by increasing the otherwise 
     applicable General Schedule base rate for the wildland 
     firefighter by the following applicable percentage for the 
     grade of the wildland firefighter and rounding the result to 
     the nearest whole dollar:
       ``(i) For GS-1, 42 percent.
       ``(ii) For GS-2, 39 percent.
       ``(iii) For GS-3, 36 percent.
       ``(iv) For GS-4, 33 percent.
       ``(v) For GS-5, 30 percent.
       ``(vi) For GS-6, 27 percent.
       ``(vii) For GS-7, 24 percent.
       ``(viii) For GS-8, 21 percent.
       ``(ix) For GS-9, 18 percent.
       ``(x) For GS-10, 15 percent.
       ``(xi) For GS-11, 12 percent.
       ``(xii) For GS-12, 9 percent.
       ``(xiii) For GS-13, 6 percent.
       ``(xiv) For GS-14, 3 percent.
       ``(xv) For GS-15, 1.5 percent.

[[Page H275]]

       ``(B) Hourly, Daily, Weekly, or Biweekly Rates.--When the 
     special base rate with respect to a wildland firefighter is 
     expressed as an hourly, daily, weekly, or biweekly rate, the 
     special base rate shall be computed from the appropriate 
     annual rate of basic pay derived under subparagraph (A) in 
     accordance with the rules under section 5504(b).''.
       ``(b) Amendment to Prevailing Rate Determinations.--Section 
     5343 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
     the end the following:
       ``(g) (1) For a prevailing rate employee described in 
     section 5342(a)(2)(A) who is a wildland firefighter, as 
     defined in section 5332a(a), the Secretary of Agriculture or 
     the Secretary of the Interior (as applicable) shall increase 
     the wage rates of that employee by an amount (determined at 
     the sole and exclusive discretion of the applicable Secretary 
     after consultation with the other Secretary) that is 
     generally consistent with the percentage increases given to 
     wildland firefighters in the General Schedule under section 
     5332a.
       ``(2) An increased wage rate under paragraph (1) shall be 
     basic pay for the same purposes as the wage rate otherwise 
     established under this section.
       ``(3) An increase under this subsection may not cause the 
     wage rate of an employee to increase to a rate that would 
     produce an annualized rate in excess of the annual rate for 
     level IV of the Executive Schedule.''.
       ``(c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for 
     subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, 
     is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
     5332 the following:
       ``5332a. Special base rates of pay for wildland 
     firefighters.''.
       (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on the first day of the first applicable 
     pay period beginning on or after October 1, 2025, or the date 
     of enactment of this Act, whichever is later.
       (e) Applicability of Certain Provisions of Infrastructure 
     Investment and Jobs Act.--Notwithstanding section 
     40803(d)(4)(B) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act 
     (16 U.S.C. 6592(d)(4)(B)) and authority provided under the 
     headings ``WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT--FOREST SERVICE'' and 
     ``WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR'' in 
     fiscal years 2024 and 2025, the salary increase in such 
     section and under such headings shall not apply to the 
     positions described in such section 40803(d)(4)(B) for 
     service performed on or after the effective date described in 
     subsection (d) of this section.

     SEC. 502. WILDLAND FIRE INCIDENT RESPONSE PREMIUM PAY.

       (a) In general.--Subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5, 
     United Sates Code, is amended by inserting after section 
     5545b the following:

     ``Sec. 5545C. INCIDENT RESPONSE PREMIUM PAY FOR EMPLOYEES 
                   ENGAGED IN WILDLAND FIREFIGHTING

       ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
       ``(1) the term `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
       ``(A) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives;
       ``(B) the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the 
     House of Representatives;
       ``(C) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
     Representatives;
       ``(D) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
     Representatives;
       ``(E) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
       ``(F) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate;
       ``(G) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
     Senate; and
       ``(H) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
     of the Senate;
       ``(2) the term `covered employee' means an employee of the 
     Forest Service or the Department of the Interior who is--
       ``(A) a wildland firefighter, as defined in section 
     5332a(a); or
       ``(B) certified by the applicable agency to perform 
     wildland fire incident-related duties during the period that 
     employee is deployed to respond to a qualifying incident;
       ``(3) the term `incident response premium pay' means pay to 
     which a covered employee is entitled under subsection (c);
       ``(4) the term `prescribed fire incident' means a wildland 
     fire originating from a planned ignition in accordance with 
     applicable laws, policies, and regulations to meet specific 
     objectives;
       ``(5) the term `qualifying incident'--
       ``(A) means--
       ``(i) a wildfire incident, a prescribed fire incident, or a 
     severity incident; or
       ``(ii) an incident that the Secretary of Agriculture or the 
     Secretary of the Interior determines is similar in nature to 
     an incident described in clause (i); and
       ``B) does not include an initial response incident that is 
     contained within 36 hours; and
       ``(6) the term `severity incident' means an incident in 
     which a covered employee is prepositioned in an area in which 
     conditions indicate there is a high risk of wildfires.
       ``(b) ELIGIBILITY.--A covered employee is eligible for 
     incident response premium pay under this section if--
       ``(1) the covered employee is deployed to respond to a 
     qualifying incident; and
       ``(2) the deployment described in paragraph (1) is--
       ``(A) outside of the official duty station of the covered 
     employee; or
       ``(B) within the official duty station of the covered 
     employee and the covered employee is assigned to an incident-
     adjacent fire camp or other designated field location.
       ``(c) Entitlement to Incident Response Premium Pay.--
       ``(1) In general.--A covered employee who satisfies the 
     conditions under subsection (b) is entitled to premium pay 
     for the period in which the covered employee is deployed to 
     respond to the applicable qualifying incident.
       ``(2) Computation.--
       ``(A) Formula.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), 
     premium pay under paragraph (1) shall be paid to a covered 
     employee at a daily rate of 450 percent of the hourly rate of 
     basic pay of the covered employee for each day that the 
     covered employee satisfies the requirements under subsection 
     (b), rounded to the nearest whole cent
       ``(B) Limitation.--Premium pay under this subsection may 
     not be paid.
       ``(i) with respect to a covered employee for whom the 
     annual rate of basic pay is greater than that for step 10 of 
     GS-10, at a daily rate that exceeds the daily rate 
     established under subparagraph (A) for step 10 of GS-10; or
       ``(ii) to a covered employee in a total amount that exceeds 
     $9,000 in any calendar year.
       ``(C) Adjustments.--
       ``(i) Assessment.--The Secretary of Agriculture and the 
     Secretary of the Interior shall assess the difference between 
     the average total amount of compensation that was paid to 
     covered employees, by grade, in fiscal years 2023 and 2024.
       ``(ii) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date that 
     is 1 year after the effective date of this section, the 
     Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior 
     shall jointly publish a report on the results of the 
     assessment conducted under clause (i).
       ``(iii) Administrative Actions.--After publishing the 
     report required under clause (ii), the Secretary of 
     Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior, in 
     consultation with the Director of the Office of Personnel 
     Management, may, in the sole and exclusive discretion of the 
     Secretaries acting jointly, administratively adjust the 
     amount of premium pay paid under this subsection (or take 
     other administrative action) to ensure that the average 
     annual amount of total compensation paid to covered 
     employees, by grade, is more consistent with such amount that 
     was paid to those employees in fiscal year 2023.
       ``(iv) Congressional Notification.--Not later than 3 days 
     after an adjustment made, or other administrative action 
     taken, under clause (iii) becomes final, the Secretary of 
     Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall jointly 
     submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
     notification regarding that adjustment or other 
     administrative action, as applicable.
       ``(d) Treatment of incident response premium pay.--Incident 
     response premium pay under this section--
       ``(1) is not considered part of the basic pay of a covered 
     employee for any purpose;
       ``(2) may not be considered in determining a covered 
     employee's lump-sum payment for accumulated and accrued 
     annual leave under section 5551 or section 5552;
       ``(3) may not be used in determining pay under section 8114 
     (relating to compensation for work injuries);
       ``(4) may not be considered in determining pay for hours of 
     paid leave or other paid time off during which the premium 
     pay is not payable; and
       ``(5) shall be disregarded in determining the minimum wage 
     and overtime pay to which a covered employee is entitled 
     under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et 
     seq.).''.
       ``(b) Amendments to premium pay provisions.--Subchapter V 
     of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in section 5544--
       ``(A) by amending the section heading to read as follows: 
     ``Wage-board overtime, Sunday rates, and other premium pay''; 
     and
       ``(B) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(d) A prevailing rate employee described in section 
     5342(a)(2)(A) shall receive incident response premium pay 
     under the same terms and conditions that apply to a covered 
     employee under section 5545c if that employee--
       ``(1) is employed by the Forest Service or the Department 
     of the Interior; and
       ``(2) (A) is a wildland firefighter, as defined in section 
     5332a(a); or
       ``(B) is certified by the applicable agency to perform 
     wildland fire incident-related duties during the period the 
     employee is deployed to respond to a qualifying incident (as 
     defined in section 5545c(a)).''; and
       ``(2) in section 5547(a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
     (1), by inserting ``5545c,'' after ``5545a,''.
       ``(c) Clerical amendments.--The table of sections for 
     subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       ``(1) by amending the item relating to section 5544 to read 
     as follows:
       ``5544. Wage-board overtime, Sunday rates, and other 
     premium pay.'';
       ``and (2) by inserting after the item relating to section 
     5545b the following:
       ``5545c. Incident response premium pay for employees 
     engaged in wildland firefighting.''.
       ``(d) Effective date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall take effect on the first day of the first applicable 
     pay period beginning on or after October 1, 2025, or the date 
     of enactment of this Act, whichever is later.

  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT from Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance

[[Page H276]]

of my time, and I move the previous question on the resolution.
  The previous question was ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on adoption of the 
resolution.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this question will be postponed.

                          ____________________

