[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 1 (Friday, January 3, 2025)]
[House]
[Pages H8-H23]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 AUTHORIZING THE CLERK TO INFORM THE PRESIDENT OF THE ELECTION OF THE 
                         SPEAKER AND THE CLERK

  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I offer a privileged resolution 
and ask for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:

                               H. Res. 4

       Resolved, That the Clerk be instructed to inform the 
     President of the United States that the House of 
     Representatives has elected Mike Johnson, a Representative 
     from the State of Louisiana as Speaker, and Kevin McCumber, a 
     citizen of the State of Illinois as Clerk, of the House of 
     Representatives of the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress.

  The resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                              {time}  1630
                           RULES OF THE HOUSE

  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I offer a privileged resolution and ask 
for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:

                               H. Res. 5

       Resolved,

     SECTION 1. ADOPTION OF THE RULES OF THE ONE HUNDRED 
                   EIGHTEENTH CONGRESS.

       The Rules of the House of Representatives of the One 
     Hundred Eighteenth Congress, including applicable provisions 
     of law or concurrent resolution that constituted rules of the 
     House at the end of the One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, are 
     adopted as the Rules of the House of Representatives of the 
     One Hundred Nineteenth Congress, with amendments to the 
     standing rules as provided in section 2, and with other 
     orders as provided in this resolution.

     SEC. 2. CHANGES TO THE STANDING RULES.

       (a) Resolution Declaring the Office of Speaker Vacant.--In 
     clause 2(a) of rule IX, add the following new subparagraph:
       ``(3) A resolution causing a vacancy in the Office of 
     Speaker shall not be privileged except if it is offered by a 
     member of the majority party and has accumulated eight 
     cosponsors from the majority party at the time it is 
     offered.''.
       (b) Permitting Electronic Voting in Committee.--In rule 
     XI--
       (1) in clause 1(d)(2)(E), strike ``clauses 2(n), (o), or 
     (p)'' and insert ``clauses 2(o), (p), or (q)''; and
       (2) in clause 2, insert after paragraph (m) the following 
     new paragraph (and redesignate the succeeding paragraphs 
     accordingly):
       ``(n) A committee may adopt a rule or motion permitting the 
     use of electronic voting in accordance with regulations 
     submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the 
     chair of the Committee on Rules and the chair of the 
     Committee on House Administration.''.
       (c) Clarification of Role of Chief Administrative Officer 
     in Vacant Offices.--In clause 4 of rule II, add at the end 
     the following new paragraph:
       ``(e) The Chief Administrative Officer shall assist the 
     Clerk in carrying out the responsibilities described in 
     clause 2(i).''.
       (d) Designating Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.--In the standing rules, strike ``Committee on 
     Oversight and Accountability'' each place it appears and 
     insert (in each instance) ``Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform''.
       (e) Designating Committee on Education and Workforce.--In 
     rule X--
       (1) in clause 1(e), strike ``Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce'' and insert ``Committee on Education and 
     Workforce''; and
       (2) in clause 3(d), strike ``Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce'' and insert ``Committee on Education and 
     Workforce''.

[[Page H9]]

       (f) Striking Office of Diversity and Inclusion.--
       (1) Strike.--In rule II, strike clause 9 and redesignate 
     the succeeding clause accordingly.
       (2) Conforming amendments.--In clause 4(d)(1)(A) of rule 
     X--
       (A) strike ``the Office of Diversity and Inclusion,''; and
       (B) strike ``Inspector General, Office of Diversity and 
     Inclusion'' and insert ``Inspector General''.
       (g) Codification of Long-standing Separate Orders.--
       (1) Memorials submitted pursuant to article v.--In clause 3 
     of rule XII--
       (A) strike ``If a Member'' and insert ``(a) If a Member''; 
     and
       (B) add at the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(b) With respect to any memorial presented under 
     paragraph (a) purporting to be an application of the 
     legislature of a State calling for a convention for proposing 
     amendments to the Constitution of the United States pursuant 
     to Article V, or a rescission of any such prior application--
       ``(1) the chair of the Committee on the Judiciary shall, in 
     the case of such a memorial presented in the One Hundred 
     Fourteenth Congress or succeeding Congresses, and may, in the 
     case of such a memorial presented prior to the One Hundred 
     Fourteenth Congress, designate any such memorial for public 
     availability by the Clerk; and
       ``(2) the Clerk shall make such memorials as are designated 
     pursuant to subparagraph (1) publicly available in electronic 
     form, organized by State of origin and year of receipt, and 
     shall indicate whether the memorial was designated as an 
     application or a rescission.''.
       (2) Numbering of bills.--In clause 7 of rule XII, add at 
     the end the following new paragraph:
       ``(d) The first 10 numbers for bills (H.R. 1 through H.R. 
     10) shall be reserved for assignment by the Speaker and the 
     second 10 numbers for bills (H.R. 11 through H.R. 20) shall 
     be reserved for assignment by the Minority Leader.''.
       (3) District work periods.--In rule I, add at the end the 
     following new clause:

     ``District work periods

       ``13.(a) On any legislative day occurring during a 
     `district work period' as designated by the Speaker--
       ``(1) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day 
     shall be considered as approved; and
       ``(2) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned 
     to meet at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, 
     section 5, article I of the Constitution, to be announced by 
     the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
       ``(b) The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties 
     of the Chair for the duration of a district work period 
     described in paragraph (a) as though under clause 8(a).
       ``(c) Each day during a district work period described in 
     paragraph (a) shall not constitute--
       ``(1) a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the War 
     Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1546);
       ``(2) a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of rule 
     XIII;
       ``(3) a calendar or legislative day for purposes of clause 
     7(c)(1) of rule XXII; or
       ``(4) a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of rule 
     XV.''.
       (h) Restoring Family-centric Language.--In rule XXIII--
       (1) in clause 8(c)(3), strike ``parent, child, sibling, 
     parent's sibling, first cousin, sibling's child, spouse, 
     parent-in-law, child-in-law, sibling-in-law, stepparent, 
     stepchild, stepsibling, half-sibling, or grandchild'' and 
     insert ``father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, 
     uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, 
     father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, 
     brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, 
     stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, 
     half sister, grandson, or granddaughter''; and
       (2) in clause 15(d)(2), strike ``parent, child, sibling, 
     spouse, or parent-in-law'' and insert ``father, mother, son, 
     daughter, brother, sister, husband, wife, father-in-law, or 
     mother-in-law''.
       (i) Suspensions.--In clause 1(a) of rule XV, add at the end 
     the following new sentence: ``The Speaker may not entertain a 
     motion that the House suspend the rules except on Mondays, 
     Tuesdays, and Wednesdays.''.
       (j) Technical Corrections.--
       (1) Interim funding.--In clause 7(b) of rule X, strike ``In 
     the case of the first session of a Congress, amounts'' and 
     insert ``Amounts''.
       (2) Day count.--In clause 6(d) of rule XIII, insert 
     ``thereafter'' after ``seven legislative days''.

     SEC. 3. SEPARATE ORDERS.

       (a) Holman Rule.--During the One Hundred Nineteenth 
     Congress, any reference in clause 2 of rule XXI to a 
     provision or amendment that retrenches expenditures by a 
     reduction of amounts of money covered by the bill shall be 
     construed as applying to any provision or amendment (offered 
     after the bill has been read for amendment) that retrenches 
     expenditures by--
       (1) reduction of amounts of money in the bill;
       (2) the reduction of the number and salary of the officers 
     of the United States; or
       (3) the reduction of the compensation of any person paid 
     out of the Treasury of the United States.
       (b) Spending Reduction Amendments in Appropriations 
     Bills.--
       (1) During the reading of a general appropriation bill for 
     amendment in the Committee of the Whole House on the state of 
     the Union, it shall be in order to consider en bloc 
     amendments proposing only to transfer appropriations from an 
     object or objects in the bill to a spending reduction 
     account. When considered en bloc under this paragraph, such 
     amendments may amend portions of the bill not yet read for 
     amendment (following disposition of any points of order 
     against such portions) and are not subject to a demand for 
     division of the question in the House or in the Committee of 
     the Whole.
       (2) Except as provided in paragraph (1), it shall not be in 
     order to consider an amendment to a spending reduction 
     account in the House or in the Committee of the Whole House 
     on the state of the Union.
       (3) A point of order under clause 2(b) of rule XXI shall 
     not apply to a spending reduction account.
       (4) A general appropriation bill may not be considered in 
     the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union 
     unless it includes a spending reduction account as the last 
     section of the bill. An order to report a general 
     appropriation bill to the House shall constitute authority 
     for the chair of the Committee on Appropriations to add such 
     a section to the bill or modify the figure contained therein.
       (5) For purposes of this subsection, the term ``spending 
     reduction account'' means an account in a general 
     appropriation bill that bears that caption and contains 
     only--
       (A) a recitation of the amount by which an applicable 
     allocation of new budget authority under section 302(b) of 
     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 exceeds the amount of 
     new budget authority proposed by the bill; or
       (B) if no such allocation is in effect, ``$0''.
       (c) Budget Matters.--
       (1) Long term spending point of order.--
       (A) Congressional budget office analysis of proposals.--The 
     Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall, to the 
     extent practicable, prepare an estimate of whether a bill or 
     joint resolution reported by a committee (other than the 
     Committee on Appropriations), or amendment thereto or 
     conference report thereon, would cause, relative to current 
     law, a net increase in direct spending in excess of 
     $2,500,000,000 in any of the 4 consecutive 10-fiscal year 
     periods beginning with the first fiscal year that is 10 
     fiscal years after the current fiscal year.
       (B) Point of order.--It shall not be in order to consider 
     any bill or joint resolution reported by a committee, or 
     amendment thereto or conference report thereon, that would 
     cause a net increase in direct spending in excess of 
     $2,500,000,000 in any of the 4 consecutive 10-fiscal year 
     periods described in subparagraph (A).
       (C) Determinations of budget levels.--For purposes of this 
     paragraph, the levels of net increases in direct spending 
     shall be determined on the basis of estimates provided by the 
     chair of the Committee on the Budget.
       (2) Scoring conveyances of federal land.--
       (A) In general.--In the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress, 
     for all purposes in the House, a provision in a bill or joint 
     resolution, or in an amendment thereto or a conference report 
     thereon, requiring or authorizing a conveyance of Federal 
     land to a State, local government, or tribal entity shall not 
     be considered as providing new budget authority, decreasing 
     revenues, increasing mandatory spending, or increasing 
     outlays.
       (B) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
       (i) The term ``conveyance'' means any method, including 
     sale, donation, or exchange, by which all or any portion of 
     the right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
     Federal land is transferred to another entity.
       (ii) The term ``Federal land'' means any land owned by the 
     United States, including the surface estate, the subsurface 
     estate, or any improvements thereon.
       (iii) The term ``State'' means any of the several States, 
     the District of Columbia, or a territory (including a 
     possession) of the United States.
       (3) Analysis of inflationary impact for certain 
     legislation.--During the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress, if 
     an estimate provided by the Congressional Budget Office under 
     section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 shows 
     changes in mandatory spending that cause a gross budgetary 
     effect in any fiscal year over a 10-year period that is equal 
     to or greater than .25 percent of the projected gross 
     domestic product (measured by the Consumer Price Index for 
     All Urban Consumers) for the current fiscal year, or upon the 
     request of the chair of the Committee on the Budget, then 
     such estimate shall include, to the extent practicable, a 
     statement estimating the inflationary effects of the 
     legislation, including whether the legislation is determined 
     to have no significant impact on inflation, is determined to 
     have a quantifiable inflationary impact on the consumer price 
     index, or is determined likely to have a significant impact 
     on inflation but the amount cannot be determined at the time 
     the estimate is prepared.
       (4) Content of cbo analysis for certain legislation 
     affecting the federal hospital insurance trust fund or the 
     old-age, survivors, and disability insurance trust fund.--
     During the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress, if an estimate 
     provided by the Congressional Budget Office under section 402 
     of

[[Page H10]]

     the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 shows that legislation 
     impacting either the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or 
     the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance Trust Fund 
     (OASDI) causes a gross budgetary effect in any fiscal year 
     over a 10-year period that is equal to or greater than .25 
     percent of the projected gross domestic product (measured by 
     the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers) for the 
     current fiscal year, or upon request of the chair of the 
     Committee on the Budget, then such estimate shall, to the 
     extent practicable, display--
       (A) the impact of legislation on the Federal Hospital 
     Insurance Trust Fund's unfunded liabilities over a 25-year 
     projection, solvency projections, and the net present value 
     of those liabilities; and
       (B) the impact of legislation on the OASDI trust fund's 
     unfunded liabilities over a 75-year projection, solvency 
     projections, and the net present value of those liabilities.
       (d) Congressional Member Organization Transparency 
     Reform.--
       (1) Payment of salaries and expenses through account of 
     organization.--A Member of the House of Representatives and 
     an eligible Congressional Member Organization may enter into 
     an agreement under which--
       (A) an employee of the Member's office may carry out 
     official and representational duties of the Member by 
     assignment to the Organization; and
       (B) to the extent that the employee carries out such duties 
     under the agreement, the Member shall transfer the portion of 
     the Members' Representational Allowance (MRA) of the Member 
     which would otherwise be used for the salary and related 
     expenses of the employee to a dedicated account in the House 
     of Representatives which is administered by the Organization, 
     in accordance with the regulations promulgated by the 
     Committee on House Administration under paragraph (2).
       (2) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration 
     (hereafter referred to in this subsection as the 
     ``Committee'') shall promulgate regulations as follows:
       (A) Use of mra.--Pursuant to the authority of section 
     101(d) of the House of Representatives Administrative Reform 
     Technical Corrections Act (2 U.S.C. 5341(d)), the Committee 
     shall prescribe regulations to provide that an eligible 
     Congressional Member Organization may use the amounts 
     transferred to the Organization's dedicated account under 
     paragraph (1)(B) for the same purposes for which a Member of 
     the House of Representatives may use the Members' 
     Representational Allowance, except that the Organization may 
     not use such amounts for franked mail, official travel, or 
     leases of space or vehicles.
       (B) Maintenance of limitations on number of shared 
     employees.--Pursuant to the authority of section 104(d) of 
     the House of Representatives Administrative Reform Technical 
     Corrections Act (2 U.S.C. 5321(d)), the Committee shall 
     prescribe regulations to provide that an employee of the 
     office of a Member of the House of Representatives who is 
     covered by an agreement entered into under paragraph (1) 
     between the Member and an eligible Congressional Member 
     Organization shall be considered a shared employee of the 
     Member's office and the Organization for purposes of such 
     section, and shall include in such regulations appropriate 
     accounting standards to ensure that a Member of the House of 
     Representatives who enters into an agreement with such an 
     Organization under paragraph (1) does not employ more 
     employees than the Member is authorized to employ under such 
     section.
       (C) Participation in student loan repayment program.--
     Pursuant to the authority of section 105(b) of the 
     Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 
     4536(b)), relating to the student loan repayment program for 
     employees of the House, the Committee shall promulgate 
     regulations to provide that, in the case of an employee who 
     is covered by an agreement entered into under paragraph (1) 
     between a Member of the House of Representatives and an 
     eligible Congressional Member Organization and who 
     participates in such program while carrying out duties under 
     the agreement--
       (i) any funds made available for making payments under the 
     program with respect to the employee shall be transferred to 
     the Organization's dedicated account under paragraph (1)(B); 
     and
       (ii) the Organization shall use the funds to repay a 
     student loan taken out by the employee, under the same terms 
     and conditions which would apply under the program if the 
     Organization were the employing office of the employee.
       (D) Access to house services.--The Committee shall 
     prescribe regulations to ensure that an eligible 
     Congressional Member Organization has appropriate access to 
     services of the House.
       (E) Other regulations.--The Committee shall promulgate such 
     other regulations as may be appropriate to carry out this 
     subsection.
       (3) Eligible congressional member organization defined.--In 
     this subsection, the term ``eligible Congressional Member 
     Organization'' means, with respect to the One Hundred 
     Nineteenth Congress, an organization meeting each of the 
     following requirements:
       (A) The organization is registered as a Congressional 
     Member Organization with the Committee on House 
     Administration.
       (B) The organization designates a single Member of the 
     House of Representatives to be responsible for the 
     administration of the organization, including the 
     administration of the account administered under paragraph 
     (1)(B), and includes the identification of such Member with 
     the statement of organization that the organization files and 
     maintains with the Committee on House Administration.
       (C) At least 3 employees of the House are assigned to 
     perform some work for the organization.
       (D) During the One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, at least 30 
     Members of the House of Representatives used a portion of the 
     Members' Representational Allowance of the Member for the 
     salary and related expenses of an employee who was a shared 
     employee of the Member's office and the organization.
       (E) The organization files a statement with the Committee 
     on House Administration and the Chief Administrative Officer 
     of the House of Representatives certifying that it will 
     administer an account in accordance with paragraph (1)(B).
       (e) Determination With Respect to Placement of Measure on 
     Consensus Calendar.--During the One Hundred Nineteenth 
     Congress, not later than 2 legislative days after a measure 
     is placed on the Consensus Calendar pursuant to clause 7(c) 
     of rule XV, the Majority Leader shall, in the case such 
     measure is not in compliance with any legislative protocols 
     of the Majority Leader, submit to the Congressional Record a 
     determination with respect to such noncompliance.
       (f) Further Expenses for Resolving Contested Elections.--
       (1) Amounts for expenses of committee on house 
     administration.--There shall be paid out of the applicable 
     accounts of the House of Representatives such sums as may be 
     necessary for further expenses of the Committee on House 
     Administration for the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress for 
     resolving contested elections.
       (2) Session limitation.--The amount specified in paragraph 
     (1) shall be available for expenses incurred during the 
     period beginning at noon on January 3, 2025, and ending 
     immediately before noon on January 3, 2026.
       (3) Vouchers.--Payments under this subsection shall be made 
     on vouchers authorized by the Committee on House 
     Administration, signed by the chair of the Committee, and 
     approved in the manner directed by the Committee.
       (4) Regulations.--Amounts made available under this 
     subsection shall be expended in accordance with regulations 
     prescribed by the Committee on House Administration.
       (g) Question of Consideration for Germaneness.--
       (1) In general.--During the One Hundred Nineteenth 
     Congress, it shall not be in order to consider a rule or 
     order that waives all points of order against an amendment 
     submitted to the Committee on Rules otherwise in violation of 
     clause 7 of rule XVI.
       (2) Disposition of point of order.--As disposition of a 
     point of order under paragraph (1), the Chair shall put the 
     question of consideration with respect to the rule or order, 
     as applicable. The question of consideration shall be 
     debatable for 10 minutes by the Member initiating the point 
     of order and for 10 minutes by an opponent, but shall 
     otherwise be decided without intervening motion except one 
     that the House adjourn.
       (h) Restoring Legislative Branch Accountability.--The 
     regulations adopted pursuant to House Resolution 1096, One 
     Hundred Seventeenth Congress, shall have no force or effect 
     during the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress.
       (i) Remote Appearance of Witnesses.--
       (1) In general.--During the One Hundred Nineteenth 
     Congress, at the discretion of the chair of a committee and 
     in accordance with regulations submitted for printing in the 
     Congressional Record by the chair of the Committee on Rules--
       (A) witnesses at committee or subcommittee proceedings may 
     appear remotely;
       (B) counsel shall be permitted to accompany witnesses 
     appearing remotely; and
       (C) an oath may be administered to a witness remotely for 
     purposes of clause 2(m)(2) of rule XI.
       (2) Applicability.--This subsection shall not apply to 
     witnesses representing the executive branch of the United 
     States government.
       (j) Addressing the Use of Artificial Intelligence.--The 
     Committee on House Administration, the Clerk, the Chief 
     Administrative Officer, and other officers and officials of 
     the House shall continue efforts to integrate artificial 
     intelligence technologies into the operations and functions 
     of the House in the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress, in 
     furtherance of the institutional priorities outlined in the 
     House Information Technology Policy 8 (HITPOL 8) Artificial 
     Intelligence (AI), which shall include--
       (1) incorporating appropriate guardrails and specific AI 
     principles from HITPOL 8 that will guide both Members and 
     institutional offices if they choose to incorporate this 
     technology into their operations;
       (2) exploring the use of AI applications to streamline 
     administrative processes and enhance decision-making 
     capabilities for House staff; and
       (3) continuing to advance AI-driven tools to support 
     effective oversight through efficient legislative drafting, 
     analysis, and comparative assessments of legislative texts.
       (k) Broadening Availability and Utility of Legislative 
     Documents in Machine-readable Formats.--The Committee on

[[Page H11]]

     House Administration, the Clerk, and other officers and 
     officials of the House shall continue efforts to broaden the 
     availability and utility of legislative documents in machine 
     readable formats in the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress in 
     furtherance of the institutional priorities of--
       (1) improving public availability and use of legislative 
     information produced by the House and its committees; and
       (2) enabling all House staff to produce comparative prints 
     showing the differences between versions of legislation, how 
     proposed legislation will amend existing law, and how an 
     amendment may change proposed legislation.
       (l) Improving the Committee Electronic Document 
     Repository.--The Clerk, the Committee on House 
     Administration, and other officers and officials of the House 
     shall continue efforts to improve the electronic document 
     repository operated by the Clerk for use by committees of the 
     House in the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress, including 
     streamlining the process of cross-posting documents 
     simultaneously by the Committee on Rules, in furtherance of 
     the institutional priority of increasing public availability 
     and identification of legislative information produced and 
     held by House committees, including votes, amendments, and 
     witness disclosure forms.
       (m) Exercise Facilities for Former Members.--During the One 
     Hundred Nineteenth Congress:
       (1) The House of Representatives may not provide access to 
     any exercise facility which is made available exclusively to 
     Members and former Members, officers and former officers of 
     the House of Representatives, and their spouses to any former 
     Member, former officer, or spouse who is a lobbyist 
     registered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 or any 
     successor statute or who is an agent of a foreign principal 
     as defined in clause 5 of rule XXV. For purposes of this 
     subsection, the term ``Member'' includes a Delegate or 
     Resident Commissioner to the Congress.
       (2) The Committee on House Administration shall promulgate 
     regulations to carry out this subsection.
       (n) Displaying Statement of Rights and Protections Provided 
     to House Employees.--The Committee on House Administration 
     shall issue regulations to provide that each employing office 
     of the House of Representatives shall post in a prominent 
     location in the office (including, in the case of the office 
     of a Member, Delegate, or the Resident Commissioner, a 
     prominent location in each district office) a statement of 
     the rights and protections provided to employees of the House 
     of Representatives under the Congressional Accountability Act 
     of 1995, including the procedures available to employees of 
     the House under such Act for responding to and adjudicating 
     allegations of violations of such rights and protections.
       (o) Non-disclosure Agreements.--Any non-disclosure 
     agreement imposed by any employing or contracting authority 
     in the House of Representatives to which a paid or unpaid 
     employee or contractor is or was required to agree as a term 
     of employment shall--
       (1) provide clear guidance that the employee or contractor 
     may communicate concerning any matter with the Committee on 
     Ethics, the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights, or any 
     other office or entity designated by the Committee on House 
     Administration without prior, concurrent, or subsequent 
     notice or approval; and
       (2) not be binding and shall have no legal effect to the 
     extent to which it requires prior, concurrent, or subsequent 
     notice or approval from anyone on any matter with respect to 
     communications from an employee or contractor to any of the 
     committees, offices, or entities described in paragraph (1).
       (p) Requiring Members to Pay for Discrimination 
     Settlements.--
       (1) In general.--In the case of a settlement of a complaint 
     under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 in 
     connection with a claim alleging a violation described in 
     paragraph (2) which is committed personally by a Member, 
     Delegate, or Resident Commissioner, if the Member, Delegate, 
     or Resident Commissioner is not required under law to 
     reimburse the Treasury for the amount of the settlement, the 
     chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on House 
     Administration may not approve the settlement pursuant to 
     clause 4(d)(2) of rule X unless, under the terms and 
     conditions of the settlement, the Member, Delegate, or 
     Resident Commissioner is required to reimburse the Treasury 
     for the amount of the settlement.
       (2) Violations described.--A violation described in this 
     paragraph is--
       (A) a violation of section 201(a) or section 206(a) of the 
     Congressional Accountability Act of 1995; or
       (B) a violation of section 208 of such Act which consists 
     of intimidating, taking reprisal against, or otherwise 
     discriminating against any covered employee under such Act 
     because of a claim alleging a violation described in 
     subparagraph (A).
       (q) Mandatory Anti-harassment and Anti-discrimination 
     Policies for House Offices.--
       (1) Requiring offices to adopt policy.--Each employing 
     office of the House of Representatives under the 
     Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 shall adopt an anti-
     harassment and anti-discrimination policy for the office's 
     workplace.
       (2) Regulations.--Not later than April 1, 2025, the 
     Committee on House Administration shall promulgate 
     regulations to carry out this subsection, and shall ensure 
     that such regulations are consistent with the requirements of 
     the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, rule XXIII, and 
     other relevant laws, rules, and regulations.
       (r) Member Day Hearing Requirement.--During the first 
     session of the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress, each standing 
     committee (other than the Committee on Ethics) shall hold a 
     hearing at which it receives testimony from Members, 
     Delegates, and the Resident Commissioner on proposed 
     legislation within its jurisdiction, except that the 
     Committee on Rules may hold such hearing during the second 
     session of the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress.
       (s) Information to Committees of Congress on Request.--
     During the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress, the chair of the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform shall be 
     included as one of the seven members of the Committee making 
     any request of an Executive agency pursuant to section 2954 
     of title 5, United States Code.
       (t) Deposition Authority.--
       (1) In general.--During the One Hundred Nineteenth 
     Congress, the chair of a standing committee (other than the 
     Committee on Rules), and the chair of the Permanent Select 
     Committee on Intelligence, upon consultation with the ranking 
     minority member of such committee, may order the taking of 
     depositions, including pursuant to subpoena, by a member or 
     counsel of such committee.
       (2) Regulations.--Depositions taken under the authority 
     prescribed in this subsection shall be subject to regulations 
     issued by the chair of the Committee on Rules and printed in 
     the Congressional Record.
       (3) Persons permitted to attend depositions.--Deponents may 
     be accompanied at a deposition by two designated personal, 
     nongovernmental attorneys to advise them of their rights. 
     Only members, committee staff designated by the chair or 
     ranking minority member, an official reporter, the witness, 
     and the witness's two designated attorneys are permitted to 
     attend. Other persons, including government agency personnel, 
     may not attend.
       (u) War Powers Resolution.--During the One Hundred 
     Nineteenth Congress, a motion to discharge a measure 
     introduced pursuant to section 6 or section 7 of the War 
     Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1545-46) shall not be subject to 
     a motion to table.
       (v) Continuing Litigation Authorities.--
       (1) In general.--The House authorizes the chair of the 
     Committee on the Judiciary (when elected), on behalf of the 
     Committee on the Judiciary and until such committee has 
     adopted rules pursuant to clause 2(a) of rule XI, to issue 
     the following subpoenas:
       (A) To Attorney General Merrick Garland related to the 
     Special Counsel's audio recordings of interviews with 
     President Joseph R. Biden and his ghostwriter Mark Zwonitzer.
       (B) To Mark Daly of the Department of Justice for a 
     deposition related to the Department of Justice's 
     investigation into R. Hunter Biden.
       (C) To Jack Morgan of the Department of Justice for a 
     deposition related to the Department of Justice's 
     investigation into R. Hunter Biden.
       (2) Enforcement of subpoenas.--The House further authorizes 
     the chair of the Committee on the Judiciary (when elected), 
     on behalf of the Committee on the Judiciary, consistent with 
     clause 8(c) of rule II, and the Office of General Counsel to 
     take all necessary steps as may be appropriate to continue 
     the civil actions authorized by the House during the One 
     Hundred Eighteenth Congress concerning the enforcement of the 
     subpoenas issued to such individuals.

     SEC. 4. COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS, AND HOUSE OFFICES.

       (a) Select Committee on the Strategic Competition Between 
     the United States and the Chinese Communist Party.--House 
     Resolution 11, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, as amended by 
     House Resolution 78, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, shall 
     apply in the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress in the same 
     manner as such resolution applied in the One Hundred 
     Eighteenth Congress, except that--
       (1) the Select Committee concerned shall submit all reports 
     to the House or policy recommendations to the relevant 
     standing committees under section 1(e) not later than 
     December 31, 2026; and
       (2) the investigative jurisdiction of the Select Committee 
     shall consist of policy recommendations on countering the 
     economic, technological, security, and ideological threats of 
     the Chinese Communist Party to the United States and allies 
     and partners of the United States.
       (b) House Democracy Partnership.--House Resolution 24, One 
     Hundred Tenth Congress, shall apply in the One Hundred 
     Nineteenth Congress in the same manner as such resolution 
     applied in the One Hundred Tenth Congress, except that the 
     commission concerned shall be known as the House Democracy 
     Partnership.
       (c) Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.--Sections 1 through 
     7 of House Resolution 1451, One Hundred Tenth Congress, shall 
     apply in the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress in the same 
     manner as such provisions applied in the One Hundred Tenth 
     Congress, except that--
       (1) the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission may, in addition 
     to collaborating closely with other professional staff 
     members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, collaborate 
     closely with professional staff members of other relevant 
     committees;

[[Page H12]]

       (2) the resources of the Committee on Foreign Affairs which 
     the Commission may use shall include all resources which the 
     Committee is authorized to obtain from other offices of the 
     House of Representatives; and
       (3) any amounts authorized to provide full-time 
     professional staff and resources to the Tom Lantos Human 
     Rights Commission shall be in addition to and separate from 
     the amounts authorized for salaries and expenses of the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs as provided by resolution of the 
     House, shall be administered by the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and shall be distributed equally between the co-
     chairs of the Commission.
       (d) Office of Congressional Conduct.--
       (1) In general.--References in the standing rules to the 
     Office of Congressional Ethics shall be construed as 
     references to the Office of Congressional Conduct.
       (2) Office of congressional conduct.--Section 1 of House 
     Resolution 895, One Hundred Tenth Congress, shall apply in 
     the One Hundred Nineteenth Congress in the same manner as 
     such provision applied in the One Hundred Tenth Congress, 
     except that--
       (A) the Office of Congressional Ethics shall be known as 
     the Office of Congressional Conduct (hereinafter in this 
     subsection referred to as the ``Office'');
       (B) references to the Office of Congressional Ethics shall 
     be construed as references to the Office;
       (C) the Office shall be treated as a standing committee of 
     the House for purposes of section 202(i) of the Legislative 
     Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i));
       (D) references to the Committee on Standards of Official 
     Conduct shall be construed as references to the Committee on 
     Ethics;
       (E) any requirement for concurrence in section 1(b)(1) 
     shall be construed as a requirement for consultation;
       (F) any individual who is the subject of a preliminary 
     review or second-phase review by the board shall be informed 
     of the right to be represented by counsel and invoking that 
     right should not be held negatively against such individual;
       (G) the Office may not take any action that would deny any 
     person any right or protection provided under the 
     Constitution of the United States;
       (H) any member of the board currently serving a term in 
     excess of the limitations of section 1(b)(6) of such 
     resolution shall be considered as removed from the board; and
       (I) the provision regarding appointment and compensation of 
     staff shall require an affirmative vote of at least 4 members 
     of the board not later than 30 calendar days after the board 
     has been fully constituted.

     SEC. 5. ORDERS OF BUSINESS.

       (a) Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order 
     to consider in the House any bill specified in subsection 
     (b). All points of order against consideration of each such 
     bill are waived. Each such bill shall be considered as read. 
     All points of order against provisions in each such bill are 
     waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered 
     on each such bill and on any amendment thereto to final 
     passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
     debate equally divided and controlled by the Majority Leader 
     and the Minority Leader or their respective designees; and 
     (2) one motion to recommit.
       (b) The bills referred to in this subsection are as 
     follows:
       (1) The bill (H.R. 28) to amend the Education Amendments of 
     1972 to provide that for purposes of determining compliance 
     with title IX of such Act in athletics, sex shall be 
     recognized based solely on a person's reproductive biology 
     and genetics at birth.
       (2) The bill (H.R. 29) to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to take into custody aliens who have been charged in 
     the United States with theft, and for other purposes.
       (3) The bill (H.R. 30) to amend the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act to provide that aliens who have been 
     convicted of or who have committed sex offenses or domestic 
     violence are inadmissible and deportable.
       (4) The bill (H.R. 31) to make the assault of a law 
     enforcement officer a deportable offense, and for other 
     purposes.
       (5) The bill (H.R. 32) to provide that sanctuary 
     jurisdictions that provide benefits to aliens who are present 
     in the United States without lawful status under the 
     immigration laws are ineligible for Federal funds intended to 
     benefit such aliens.
       (6) The bill (H.R. 35) to impose criminal and immigration 
     penalties for intentionally fleeing a pursuing Federal 
     officer while operating a motor vehicle.
       (7) The bill (H.R. 21) to amend title 18, United States 
     Code, to prohibit a health care practitioner from failing to 
     exercise the proper degree of care in the case of a child who 
     survives an abortion or attempted abortion.
       (8) The bill (H.R. 23) to impose sanctions with respect to 
     the International Criminal Court engaged in any effort to 
     investigate, arrest, detain, or prosecute any protected 
     person of the United States and its allies.
       (9) The bill (H.R. 33) to amend the Internal Revenue Code 
     of 1986 to provide special rules for the taxation of certain 
     residents of Taiwan with income from sources within the 
     United States.
       (10) The bill (H.R. 22) to amend the National Voter 
     Registration Act of 1993 to require proof of United States 
     citizenship to register an individual to vote in elections 
     for Federal office, and for other purposes.
       (11) The bill (H.R. 27) to amend the Controlled Substances 
     Act with respect to the scheduling of fentanyl-related 
     substances, and for other purposes.
       (12) The bill (H.R. 26) to prohibit a moratorium on the use 
     of hydraulic fracturing.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH (during the reading). Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent that the resolution be considered as read and printed in the 
Record.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Minnesota?
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman from Minnesota is recognized 
for 1 hour.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield 
the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. 
McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the 
purpose of debate only.


                             General Leave

  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Minnesota?
  There was no objection.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to include in 
the Record the section-by-section analysis of the resolution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Minnesota?
  There was no objection.

                               H. Res. 5

               Adopting the Rules for the 119th Congress


                      SECTION-BY-SECTION ANALYSIS

     Section 1. Adoption of the Rules of the One Hundred 
         Eighteenth Congress
       This section provides that the Rules of the 118th Congress 
     are the Rules of the 119th Congress, except for the 
     amendments contained in section 2 of the resolution and 
     orders contained in the resolution.
     Section 2. Changes to the Standing Rules
       Resolution Causing a Vacancy in the Office of Speaker. 
     Subsection (a) provides that a resolution causing a vacancy 
     in the Office of Speaker shall not constitute a question of 
     the privileges of the House under rule IX unless it is 
     offered by a member of the majority party and has accumulated 
     eight cosponsors of the majority party at the time it is 
     offered.
       Committee Electronic Voting. Subsection (b) allows 
     committees to adopt a rule or motion permitting the use of 
     electronic voting.
       Clarification of Role of the Chief Administrative Officer. 
     Subsection (c) clarifies that the Chief Administrative 
     Officer shall assist the Clerk in supervising the staff and 
     managing an office in the event a Congressional office 
     becomes vacant.
       Designating Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. 
     Subsection (d) redesignates the Committee on Oversight and 
     Accountability as the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
       Designating Committee on Education and Workforce. 
     Subsection (e) redesignates the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce as the Committee on Education and Workforce.
       Striking Office of Diversity and Inclusion. Subsection (f) 
     conforms the Rules to reflect the reorganization of the 
     Office of Diversity and Inclusion.
       Codification of Long-Standing Separate Orders. Memorials 
     Submitted Pursuant to Article V of the Constitution of the 
     United States. Subsection (g)(1) carries forward provisions 
     that clarify the procedures of the House regarding the 
     receipt of Article V memorials from the States by directing 
     the Clerk to make each memorial, designated by the chair of 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, electronically available, 
     organized by State of origin and year of receipt, and 
     indicate whether the memorial was designated as an 
     application or rescission.
       In carrying out this paragraph, it is expected that the 
     chair of the Committee on the Judiciary will be solely 
     charged with determining whether a memorial purports to be an 
     application of the legislature of a state calling for a 
     constitutional convention or rescission of prior 
     applications. The Clerk's role will be entirely 
     administrative. The chair of the Committee on the Judiciary 
     will only designate memorials from state legislatures (and 
     not petitions from individuals or other parties), as it is 
     only state legislatures that are contemplated under Article V 
     of the Constitution.
       In submitting each memorial to the Clerk, the chair of the 
     Committee on the Judiciary will include a transmission letter 
     that indicates it has been designated under this subsection. 
     The Clerk will make publicly available the memorial and the 
     transmission letter from the chair. Ancillary documentation 
     from the state or other parties is not expected to be 
     publicized.
       Numbering of Bills. Subsection (g)(2) reserves the first 10 
     numbers for bills (H.R. 1 through H.R. 10) for assignment by 
     the Speaker and the second 10 numbers for bills (H.R. 11 
     through H.R. 20) for assignment by the Minority Leader.

[[Page H13]]

       District Work Periods. Subsection (g)(3) provides that 
     during district work periods the Journal shall be approved, 
     the Chair may declare the House adjourned to meet within 
     Constitutional limits, the Speaker may appoint Members to 
     perform the duties of the Chair, and, each day during this 
     period shall not constitute a day for purposes of section 7 
     of the War Powers Resolution, clause 7 of rule XIII 
     (resolutions of inquiry), clause 7(c)(1) of rule XXII 
     (motions to instruct conferees), and clause 7 of XV 
     (Consensus Calendar).
       In carrying out this paragraph, it is expected that the 
     designation of a district work period will be satisfied by a 
     letter submitted by the Speaker that is laid before the 
     House.
       Restoring Family-Centric Language. Subsection (h) restores 
     family-centric language in place prior to the 117th Congress 
     in the Code of Official Conduct.
       Suspensions. Subsection (i) restores the requirement that 
     the Speaker may not entertain a motion that the House suspend 
     the rules except on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays.
       Technical Corrections. Subsection (j) makes technical 
     corrections to interim committee funding language in clause 
     7(b) of rule X and to language regarding timelines in clause 
     6(d) of rule XIII for privileged reports by the Committee on 
     Rules.
     Section 3. Separate Orders
       Holman Rule. Subsection (a) continues the ``Holman Rule'' 
     from the 118th Congress which allows amendments to 
     appropriations legislation that would reduce the salary of 
     specific Federal employees or cut a specific program.
       Spending Reduction Amendments in Appropriations Bills. 
     Subsection (b) provides for spending reduction account 
     transfer amendments and requires a spending reduction account 
     section to be included in all general appropriations bills.
       Budget Matters. Subsection (c)(1) establishes a point of 
     order against consideration of a bill or joint resolution 
     reported by a committee (other than the Committee on 
     Appropriations) or an amendment thereto, or a conference 
     report thereon, which has the net effect of increasing direct 
     spending in excess of $2,500,000,000 for any of the four 
     consecutive 10 fiscal year periods beginning with the first 
     fiscal year that is 10 fiscal years after the current fiscal 
     year. The levels of net increases in direct spending shall be 
     determined based on estimates provided by the chair of the 
     Committee on the Budget.
       Subsection (c)(2) provides that any provision in a bill, 
     joint resolution, amendment, or conference report requiring 
     or authorizing a conveyance of Federal land to a State, local 
     government, or tribal entity, shall not be considered as 
     providing new budget authority, decreasing revenues, 
     increasing mandatory spending, or increasing outlays.
       Subsection (c)(3) requires the Congressional Budget Office 
     on any legislation that shows changes in mandatory spending 
     which cause a gross budgetary effect in any fiscal year 
     covered by the budget resolution that is equal to or greater 
     than 0.25 percent of the projected GDP for the current fiscal 
     year, to the extent practicable, to provide an estimate of 
     the inflationary impacts of that legislation. This subsection 
     also allows the chair of the Committee on the Budget to 
     designate major legislation for purposes of this order.
       Subsection (c)(4) requires the Congressional Budget Office 
     on any legislation impacting either the Medicare Part A trust 
     fund or OASDI trust fund that causes a gross budgetary effect 
     in any fiscal year covered by the budget resolution that is 
     equal to or greater than 0.25 percent of the projected GDP 
     for the current fiscal year, to the extent practicable, to 
     display: (1) the impact of legislation on the Medicare Part A 
     trust fund's unfunded liabilities over a 25-year projection, 
     solvency projections, and the net present value of those 
     liabilities; and (2) the impact on the OASDI trust fund's 
     unfunded liabilities over a 75-year projection, solvency 
     projections, and the net present value of those liabilities. 
     This subsection also allows the chair of the Committee on the 
     Budget to designate major legislation for purposes of this 
     order.
       Congressional Member Organization Transparency Reform. 
     Subsection (d) continues the separate order from the 118th 
     Congress to allow participating Members to enter into 
     agreements with eligible Congressional Member Organizations 
     for the purpose of payment of salaries and expenses. The 
     subsection requires that for an organization to be eligible 
     during the 119th Congress, the organization must register 
     with the Committee on House Administration, designate a 
     single Member to be responsible for the administration of the 
     organization, have at least three employees assigned to 
     perform work for the organization, and had at least 30 
     Members during the 118th Congress using a portion of their 
     Members' Representational Allowance to pay for the salaries 
     and expenses of the organization.
       Determination with Respect to Placement of Measure on 
     Consensus Calendar. Subsection (e) directs the Majority 
     Leader to submit a statement to the Congressional Record if a 
     measure does not comply with his legislative protocols within 
     two legislative days of a measure being placed on the 
     Consensus Calendar.
       Further Expenses for Resolving Contested Elections. 
     Subsection (f) authorizes such sums as may be necessary for 
     the Committee on House Administration to resolve contested 
     elections. Funds shall be available for expenses incurred 
     between January 3, 2025, and January 3, 2026. Amounts made 
     available under this subsection shall be expended in 
     accordance with regulations prescribed by the Committee on 
     House Administration.
       Question of Consideration for Germaneness. Subsection (g) 
     continues a question of consideration on a special rule that 
     waives germaneness for an amendment. The question of 
     consideration is debatable for 20 minutes and is not subject 
     to any intervening motion except one motion to adjourn.
       Restoring Legislative Branch Accountability. Subsection (h) 
     states regulations adopted pursuant to House Resolution 1096, 
     117th Congress will have no force or effect in the 119th 
     Congress.
       Remote Appearance of Witnesses. Subsection (i) provides 
     limited authorization to a chair of a committee to allow 
     witnesses to appear remotely at committee and subcommittee 
     proceedings in accordance with regulations issued by the 
     chair of the Committee on Rules and printed in the 
     Congressional Record. This subsection does not apply to 
     witnesses representing the executive branch of the United 
     States government.
       Addressing the Use of Artificial Intelligence. Subsection 
     (j) instructs the Committee on House Administration, the 
     Clerk, the Chief Administrative Officer, and other officers 
     and officials to continue to integrate artificial 
     intelligence (AI) technologies into the operations and 
     functions of the House in the 119th Congress. These efforts 
     shall integrate principles from House Information Technology 
     Policy 8 AI, explore the use of AI to streamline 
     administrative processes, and continue to advance AI-driven 
     tools to support legislative drafting, analysis, and 
     oversight.
       Broadening Availability and Utility of Legislative 
     Documents in Machine-Readable Formats. Subsection (k) directs 
     the Committee on House Administration, the Clerk, the Chief 
     Administrative Officer, and other officers and officials to 
     advance government transparency by continuing efforts to 
     publish documents of the House in machine-readable formats 
     and broaden their utility by enabling all House staff to 
     create comparative prints.
       Improving the Committee Electronic Document Repository. 
     Subsection (l) directs the Clerk, the Committee on House 
     Administration, and other officers and officials to continue 
     to improve the existing electronic document repository 
     operated by the Clerk for use by committees. Such 
     improvements are intended to increase public availability and 
     identification of legislative information produced by House 
     committees, including votes, amendments, and witness 
     disclosure forms and should also streamline the process of 
     cross-posting documents simultaneously by the Committee on 
     Rules.
       Exercise Facilities for Former Members. Subsection (m) 
     continues the prohibition on access to any exercise facility 
     that is made available exclusively to Members, Delegates, the 
     Resident Commissioner, former Members, former Delegates, 
     former Resident Commissioners, officers, and former officers 
     of the House and their spouses to any former Member, former 
     Delegate, former Resident Commissioner, former officer, or 
     spouse who is a lobbyist registered under the Lobbying 
     Disclosure Act of 1995 or any successor statute, or who is an 
     agent of a foreign principal as defined in clause 5 of rule 
     XXV.
       Displaying Statement of Rights and Protections Provided to 
     House Employees. Subsection (n) continues a requirement that 
     the Committee on House Administration issue regulations 
     requiring each House office to prominently display a 
     statement of the rights and protections provided to House 
     employees under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, 
     including procedures available to employees for responding to 
     and adjudicating allegations of workplace rights violations.
       Non-Disclosure Agreements. Subsection (o) continues a 
     requirement providing that non-disclosure agreements required 
     by offices as a condition of employment for paid or unpaid 
     staff or contractors cannot require notice or approval for 
     employees to communicate with the Committee on Ethics, the 
     Office of Congressional Workplace Rights, or any other office 
     or entity designated by the Committee on House 
     Administration; and that non-disclosure agreements must also 
     provide clear guidance to that effect.
       Requiring Members to Pay for Discrimination Settlements. 
     Subsection (p) continues a requirement for a Member, 
     Delegate, or the Resident Commissioner to reimburse the 
     Treasury for any settlement of a complaint related to a claim 
     alleging a violation by the Member, Delegate, or the Resident 
     Commissioner of sections 201(a), 206(a), or 208 of the 
     Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, which cover 
     discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national 
     origin, age, disability, or an employee's service in the 
     uniformed services, and retaliation for claims alleging such 
     discrimination.
       Mandatory Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policies 
     for House Offices. Subsection (q) continues a requirement 
     that the Committee on House Administration issue regulations 
     to carry out this subsection by April 1, 2025. Additionally, 
     each House office is directed to adopt an anti-harassment and 
     anti-discrimination policy.
       Member Day Hearing Requirement. Subsection (r) continues 
     the Member Day hearing requirement to only occur at the full 
     committee level. Each standing committee (other than the 
     Committee on Ethics) must hold a Member Day Hearing during 
     the first

[[Page H14]]

     session of the 119th Congress to receive testimony from 
     Members, Delegates, and the Resident Commissioner on proposed 
     legislation within its jurisdiction. The subsection permits 
     the Committee on Rules to hold its Member Day Hearing during 
     the second session to receive testimony on proposed changes 
     to the standing rules for the next Congress.
       Information to Committees of Congress on Request. 
     Subsection (s) requires that the chair of the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform be included as one of the 
     seven members of the Committee making any request of an 
     Executive agency pursuant to section 2954 of title 5, United 
     States Code.
       Deposition Authority. Subsection (t) provides the Permanent 
     Select Committee on Intelligence and each standing committee 
     of the 119th Congress(except for the Committee on Rules) the 
     authority to order the taking of a deposition by a member or 
     counsel of such committee and limits persons who can attend 
     depositions to members, committee staff, an official 
     reporter, the witness, and up to two, personal, 
     nongovernmental attorneys. Depositions taken under this 
     authority are subject to regulations issued by the chair of 
     the Committee on Rules and printed in the Congressional 
     Record.
       War Powers Resolution. Subsection (u) continues the 
     separate order from the 118th Congress expressly providing 
     that any motion to discharge a measure introduced pursuant to 
     section 6 or section 7 of the War Powers Resolution is not 
     subject to a motion to table.
       Continuing Litigation Authorities. Subsection (v) addresses 
     continuing subpoena enforcement in which a House committee is 
     a party. Paragraph (1) authorizes the chair of the Committee 
     on the Judiciary (when elected) to issue the following 
     subpoenas on behalf of the Committee on the Judiciary:
       To Attorney General Merrick Garland related to the Special 
     Counsel's audio recordings of interviews with President Biden 
     and his ghostwriter Mark Zwonitzer;
       To Mark Daly of the Department of Justice for a deposition 
     related to the Department of Justice's investigation into 
     Hunter Biden; and,
       To Jack Morgan of the Department of Justice for a 
     deposition related to the Department of Justice's 
     investigation into Hunter Biden.
       Paragraph (2) authorizes the chair of the Committee on the 
     Judiciary (when elected), on behalf of the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and the Office of General Counsel to take all 
     necessary steps as may be appropriate to continue the civil 
     actions authorized by the House during the One Hundred 
     Eighteenth Congress concerning the enforcement of the above 
     subpoenas.
     Section 4. Committees, Commissions, and House Offices
       Select Committee on the Stategic Competition Between the 
     United States and the Chinese Communist Party. Subsection (a) 
     continues the Select Committee as in the 118th Congress with 
     the purpose of investigating and submitting policy 
     recommendations to counter the Chinese Communist Party's 
     economic, technological, security, and ideological threats 
     and with updated deadlines for policy recommendations and 
     reports (December 31, 2026).
       House Democracy Partnership. Subsection (b) reauthorizes 
     the House Democracy Partnership.
       Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission. Subsection (c) 
     reauthorizes the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.
       Office of Congressional Conduct. Subsection (d) 
     reauthorizes the Office of Congressional Ethics as in the 
     118th Congress with the following changes:
       Renames the Office of Congressional Ethics as the Office of 
     Congressional Conduct.
       Requires a vote on the appointment and compensation of 
     staff to occur not later than 30 calendar days after the 
     board has been fully constituted.
     Section 5. Orders of Business
       Subsection (a) provides for the separate consideration of 
     12 bills under a closed rule with one hour of debate equally 
     divided and controlled by the Majority Leader and the 
     Minority Leader or their respective designees and one motion 
     to recommit.
       Subsection (b) provides the list of bills referred to in 
     subsection (a), which include:
       A bill to amend the Education Amendments of 1972 to provide 
     that for purposes of determining compliance with title IX of 
     such Act in athletics, sex shall be recognized based solely 
     on a person's reproductive biology and genetics at birth.
       A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to 
     take into custody aliens who have been charged in the United 
     States with theft, and for other purposes.
       A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to 
     provide that aliens who have been convicted of or who have 
     committed sex offenses or domestic violence are inadmissible 
     and deportable.
       A bill to make the assault of a law enforcement officer a 
     deportable offense, and for other purposes.
       A bill to provide that sanctuary jurisdictions that provide 
     benefits to aliens who are present in the United States 
     without lawful status under the immigration laws are 
     ineligible for Federal funds intended to benefit such aliens.
       A bill to impose criminal and immigration penalties for 
     intentionally fleeing a pursuing Federal officer while 
     operating a motor vehicle.
       A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to prohibit a 
     health care practitioner from failing to exercise the proper 
     degree of care in the case of a child who survives an 
     abortion or attempted abortion.
       A bill to impose sanctions with respect to the 
     International Criminal Court engaged in any effort to 
     investigate, arrest, detain, or prosecute any protected 
     person of the United States and its allies.
       A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     provide special rules for the taxation of certain residents 
     of Taiwan with income from sources within the United States.
       A bill to amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 
     to require proof of United States citizenship to register an 
     individual to vote in elections for Federal office, and for 
     other purposes.
       A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act with respect 
     to the scheduling of fentanyl-related substances, and for 
     other purposes.
       A bill to prohibit a moratorium on the use of hydraulic 
     fracturing.

  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, today, the House will consider a rules package governing 
how this body conducts its business in the 119th Congress.
  In November, the American people sent us a mandate, a mandate 
grounded in limited government, fiscal restraint, individual freedom, 
and America First principles.
  Our constituents sent us to Washington to correct course from the 
previous 4 years of the Biden-Harris administration, an administration 
that unleashed an onslaught of regulatory burden, woke policy, Federal 
debt, and a porous southern border on the American taxpayer. Those 
taxpayers spoke with a clear and resounding message that change must 
happen. House Resolution 5 is the framework by which this body will 
deliver that change.
  The Constitution tasks this body with the governance of ourselves, 
ultimately accountable to the people we answer to every 2 years.
  With this rules package, we illustrate a House of Representatives 
that is modernized and efficient yet accountable and transparent. It 
incorporates feedback from every corner of this body, updating those 
provisions which are unworkable or outdated while maintaining core 
constitutional principles.
  I thank Speaker Johnson, Parliamentarian staff, former Chairman 
Burgess' staff, and countless others who worked tirelessly to craft 
this package and what we will consider today.
  I want to highlight some of the important changes in this rules 
package before I yield to Ranking Member McGovern. This rules package 
improves the way this body conducts its business through streamlining 
or improving internal processes to better reflect how the House of 
Representatives is supposed to operate.
  It raises the threshold by which a resolution declaring the Office of 
the Speaker vacant may be offered, ensuring that such dramatic and 
seismic decisions are made through consensus and forethought, not by 
rogue personal vendettas and last-minute chaos.
  It continues to allow committees to permit the use of electronic 
voting and remote witnesses, speeding up the process by which bills are 
considered and committees have access to expert witnesses for their 
respective hearings.
  In addition, the package continues to improve the committee 
electronic document repository, streamlining the process by which 
documents are posted by the Committee on Rules and committees of 
jurisdiction.
  Finally, the package continues the work regarding the appropriate use 
and integration of artificial intelligence in the operation and 
function of the House, ensuring Members' offices and staff have access 
to modern tools and resources.
  The resolution helps this body deliver on our mandate by the American 
people. The resolution requires that all general appropriations bills 
have a spending reduction account to help address the bloated Federal 
budget and, consequently, the ever-growing Federal debt burden.
  The package establishes several new provisions or points of order 
against measures that continue the unsustainable growth in Federal 
spending and bureaucracy. As an example, Members may raise a point of 
order against a bill that increases direct spending by $2.5 billion. It 
also requires CBO to provide information on inflation rate impacts of 
the legislation, where possible.

[[Page H15]]

  Finally, this package extends certain rules and authorities to ensure 
the continuity of our important work in the 118th Congress. It extends 
the subpoena enforcement authority for the House Committee on the 
Judiciary's investigation into Attorney General Garland's production of 
documents related to Hunter Biden to ensure no one, including President 
Biden or his son, is above congressional accountability.
  It also extends the Select Committee on the Strategic Competition 
Between the United States and the Chinese Communist Party to develop 
policies addressing the CCP's economic and geopolitical aggression.
  Finally, it provides for consideration of several measures that 
represent the opening salvo of House Republicans' agenda: securing our 
border, energy independence, and protecting life and liberty.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand here today to bring forward this 
rules package. I encourage my colleagues to support the resolution, and 
I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, happy new year. I thank the gentlewoman from Minnesota 
(Mrs. Fischbach) for yielding the customary 30 minutes.
  Mr. Speaker, I take issue with the word choice of the gentlewoman 
from Minnesota, who kept on talking about a mandate, a Republican 
mandate. Where is the mandate? Is it in the room with us? Maybe it is 
hiding under the table.

  The last time I checked, Republicans actually lost seats in the House 
of Representatives. Republicans now have the slimmest majority in 
nearly 100 years.
  One would think, given the closeness of the election, that we would 
hear more about the importance of working together in bipartisanship, 
but you would be wrong. That is reflected in this rules package.
  Mr. Speaker, it is truly unbelievable that we are at this moment 
right now. We are down here debating the revision to the revision of 
the rules package, this time again after Republicans worked out another 
backroom deal.
  What concessions were so important to bring the House to a standstill 
while they redrafted their package once again? The last-minute addition 
we were all just sitting around waiting for says that bipartisan 
suspension bills can't be debated on Thursdays or Fridays. Never mind 
if there is an emergency like a national disaster or a terror attack. 
We can't move quickly.
  That is actually why this extreme Republican majority wants to make 
this change. They hate bipartisanship. They hate bipartisanship.
  What was the change they made earlier today? What was the big 
emergency? Changing words like ``child'' to ``son'' and ``daughter'' in 
our ethics rules. They are obsessed with this stuff. It is not just 
weird. It is discrimination.
  Meanwhile, a few months ago, we received over 40 rule change 
proposals at our Member Day hearing in the Rules Committee, and zero--
zero--of them are included in this package. Instead, we get some last-
minute backroom deal.

                              {time}  1645

  I would love to hear why those ideas were all blocked, but we don't 
even have a Rules Committee chair to ask. We have no idea where any of 
this came from, and we had no time to review it all. Forget about the 
72-hour rule. We didn't even get 72 minutes, and they are already 
making a mockery of the legislative process. As I said, we don't have a 
chair of the Rules Committee. Usually at this moment, I would 
congratulate the new chair of the Rules Committee, but we are in the 
very odd situation of not having a chair of the Rules Committee right 
now.
  I think that is just one small sign of the disarray and dysfunction 
that we have been seeing around here for the last few years. We are 
debating a rules package, and Republicans don't even have a chair of 
the Rules Committee in place.
  Who wrote this? Maybe the gentlewoman can tell us who wrote these 
rules. Maybe she can tell us who decided to block dozens of amendments 
from both sides of the aisle and the many bipartisan amendments which 
were blocked with no explanation at all. We know it was done in a back 
room somewhere, with no accountability, and that is about all that we 
know.
  Speaking of back rooms, the only reason Speaker Johnson got enough 
votes is because two Members emerged from a back room, after huddling 
with the Speaker, and changed their votes to support him. God only 
knows what they were promised in order to cave to change their views.
  For the last 2 years, all the American people have been asking us to 
do is work together and get stuff done. What a radical idea: actually 
working together and getting stuff accomplished for the American 
people.
  They want us to reject extremism and polarization. The very first 
thing that this now even smaller Republican majority decides to do is 
to go into a back room and cave to their most extreme Members.
  Sadly, I am not surprised. I wanted to believe that maybe, after 
losing seats and getting nothing done in the last Congress, just maybe 
they would change. Clearly, Republicans have decided to double down on 
the dysfunction.
  Buckle up, everybody, because Republican incompetence is about to 
reach staggering new heights.
  Two years ago, the other side promised openness, transparency, and 
action. Instead, look at what they delivered: constant disarray, never-
ending dysfunction, and complete and total inaction.
  Why all this dysfunction? Because they refuse to work together with 
Democrats. Instead of working with us, they shut this place down. They 
ran the most closed Congress in history. Think about that. They would 
rather shut out voices, shut down ideas, shut off debate, and silence 
democracy. They would rather do that than work together.
  That is not what the people voted for. At least that is not what the 
people in my district voted for. I am not exaggerating when I say this: 
Republicans ran the most closed Congress in history, ever, period. They 
allowed no amendments to most bills and no opportunity to make bills 
better. They told the American people to take it or leave it, democracy 
be damned.
  They talk about an open process. Give me a break. They blocked 6,000 
amendments over the last 2 years. I don't want to hear any lectures 
about bipartisanship. Give me a break. They rejected 67 percent of 
bipartisan amendments. How is that for bipartisanship?
  Speaker Johnson even shut out his own Members. Fifty-seven percent of 
their own party's amendments were blocked.
  Open process? Open process, my foot. This is how they run things in 
the Kremlin. It is not how they should be run here in the United States 
Congress. Give me a break. Forgive my skepticism when I hear from my 
friends on the other side of the aisle about bipartisanship and 
fairness around here. Republicans have broken that promise over and 
over and over.
  Look at how much time we wasted last Congress while we were waiting 
around for Republicans to fight with each other instead of fighting for 
the American people. They spent weeks wasting taxpayer time and money 
because they couldn't elect a Speaker, not once but twice, weeks wasted 
where Congress didn't do a damn thing. Now, they have the nerve to 
lecture people about government efficiency? Come on. Get real.
  How many times last Congress did they just send everyone home because 
they couldn't even pass their own bills? How many times did they miss 
their own deadlines? When anything did get done, it was Democrats who 
stepped up to get it done.
  Hands down, Republicans ran the most ineffective, incompetent, and 
chaotic Congress in history. You would think that Republicans would 
reflect on their failures and maybe try to work toward solving the 
Nation's pressing challenges. You would think, but you would be wrong.
  The big Republican change to the rules--this is their grand idea--is 
to shield the Speaker from accountability.
  They blocked dozens of good rule changes that were suggested by 
Members of both parties, but the one big change they made is to empower 
the radical right.

[[Page H16]]

  Apparently, there is not a lot of spine around here, because Speaker 
Johnson, like former Speaker McCarthy, picked extremism over 
compromise. Did anyone even bother to ask Kevin McCarthy how that 
worked out for him the first time?
  Mr. Speaker, the last time I checked, a Speaker of the House of 
Representatives is supposed to represent the entire House, not just one 
party. A vote for these rules means that only Republicans have the 
ability to call for the removal of a Speaker. They are doing something 
totally unprecedented. For the first time in history, they are changing 
the rules to take away a basic right of the minority. That is nuts. 
What is next? Only Republicans can vote?
  That might as well be what they are saying here. It is crazy. It is 
all about empowering the radical right rather than sitting down 
together and trying to work things out. Democrats and Republicans 
should be working together to hash out our differences and to get 
things done.

  Speaker Johnson should have run for majority leader if he didn't want 
to represent the whole House, but he didn't. He ran for Speaker. 
Apparently, nobody told him that as public servants, we are here to do 
a job, not keep a job.
  I appreciate the words of the gentlewoman about these rules and their 
agenda and all that, but unfortunately, that is all they are: words, 
talk, chatter. It all means nothing. The last 2 years have shown us 
time and time again that the Republican leadership says one thing and 
does another. Rules for thee but not for me is their motto. The 
American people suffer because of their dysfunction and extremism.
  We had an opportunity to begin this Congress in a more bipartisan 
way, in a way that would give the American people some confidence that 
we will get stuff done. Instead, we begin with this, and it is a shame.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I do appreciate consistency, and I have 
heard the same complaints from the gentleman before.
  I do appreciate that the ranking member mentioned that we should 
buckle up, because the Republicans have the majority in the House, the 
majority in the Senate, and President Trump will soon be sworn in. We 
do need to buckle up, because we are going to do the job that the 
American people sent us to do. We have much work to do, and this rules 
package will help us do it.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from Indiana (Mrs. 
Houchin).
  Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman and distinguished 
Member from Minnesota for yielding.
  I rise today in support of this rules package for the 119th Congress.
  I might remind my friends on the other side of the aisle--I know it 
has been a while since they have been in the majority--when you win the 
majority, you do have the opportunity to make the rules.
  The Constitution lays out several activities for us in Congress, and 
one of those is what we are undertaking today. Among them is for the 
House to adopt its rules package. While it is not the most exciting of 
tasks, it is important and will govern the work that we do for the 
American people.
  This rules package includes a few changes and improvements that will 
help the House be more responsive to the needs of the American people.
  This package raises the threshold for vacating the Office of the 
Speaker, which is necessary to avoid chaos and personal vendettas from 
derailing our work as it did in the last Congress.
  This package extends subpoena enforcement authority for the Judiciary 
Committee's investigation into Attorney General Merrick Garland's 
production of documents. This ensures that no one, including President 
Biden or his son, is above the law.
  Finally, it provides for a dozen bills that will allow us to 
immediately get to work in this new Congress and start to secure our 
border, unleash American energy, and protect life and liberty.
  President Trump is ready to deliver on his America First agenda, and 
House Republicans must be ready to work alongside him.
  As a Member who has served on the Rules Committee, I will be 
supporting this rules package so we can start working as soon as 
possible to contend on behalf of the American people and finally get 
our country back on track.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this rules package.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I say to the gentlewoman from Indiana, I am glad she is proud of this 
rules package, and I am not surprised by that, because she, along with 
other Republicans on the Rules Committee, were responsible for blocking 
6,000 amendments in the last Congress and basically blocking 40 
amendments, many of them bipartisan, that were brought before the Rules 
Committee to be part of this rules package. I don't think that that's 
something to be particularly proud about.
  To the gentlewoman from Minnesota, again, I thank her for reminding 
us, reiterating my words about buckling up, but you buckle up because 
you are in danger. We are in danger as we look toward some of the items 
that my Republican friends want to bring to the floor.
  Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an 
amendment to the rule to bring up H.R. 4895, the Lowering Drug Costs 
for American Families Act, to lower drug costs for Americans covered by 
private insurance programs, under a modified open rule, so that all 
Members can offer amendments to the bill, unlike the 12 closed rules 
that are in this Republican rules package.

  Mr. Speaker, despite Republican opposition, Democrats have been 
fighting to lower prescription drug costs so that Americans have access 
to medicines that keep them healthy. Thanks to Democrats, the Inflation 
Reduction Act was signed into law allowing Medicare to directly 
negotiate drug prices, capping out-of-pocket costs at $2,000 annually 
under Medicare part D and providing needed relief for our seniors.
  We can't stop there. The Lowering Drug Costs for American Families 
Act would extend drug price negotiations to every individual with 
private health insurance. It would prevent price gouging by drug 
corporations, and it would provide affordable access to prescriptions 
for 164 million workers and their families.
  If my Republican colleagues truly want to help our constituents keep 
more money in their pocketbooks and keep hardworking families healthy, 
they will defeat the previous question and take up this much-needed 
bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to insert the text of my 
amendment in the Record along with any extraneous material immediately 
prior to the vote on the previous question.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Massachusetts?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. Pallone).
  Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the previous 
question.
  For the first time in history, thanks to the Democrats' Inflation 
Reduction Act, the Federal Government is negotiating lower prescription 
drug costs for American seniors that will produce real savings next 
year.
  If we pass this motion, then we will be passing my Lowering Drug 
Costs for American Families Act, which expands these savings to every 
American who has private health insurance. It is now seniors, but it 
will extend to every American who has private health insurance.
  We have already seen the incredible savings that can be generated by 
price negotiation. Last year, the Biden administration negotiated lower 
prices on 10 drugs, and, beginning next year, seniors will save an 
estimated $1.5 billion on those drugs.
  Now, imagine the savings if these lower prices were available to all 
Americans with health insurance. That is what we are doing here with 
the previous question. There is no reason this should be partisan. 
President-elect Trump once touted that he would: Negotiate like crazy 
over prescription drugs.

                              {time}  1700

  This is an opportunity for us to lower everyday prices for American 
families, and if Republicans are serious about reducing costs, then 
they would join us in supporting this legislation.

[[Page H17]]

  

  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. LaLota).
  Mr. LaLOTA. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, this November the American people called for a 
government that works, a Congress that functions, and leadership that 
delivers results.
  To achieve this, we must raise the threshold for the motion to vacate 
from one to nine Members ensuring stability and preventing a small 
faction from disrupting progress while maintaining accountability and 
the ability to govern effectively.
  This commonsense change will help us focus on issues like lowering 
costs, securing borders, supporting law enforcement, and strengthening 
the economy rather than being paralyzed by internal strife.
  However, to move forward, we have to understand from where we came. 
In the 118th Congress, a small faction of the Republican Conference, 
together with the entire Democratic Caucus, repeatedly disrupted our 
efforts to deliver for the American people. This group wielded 
disproportionate power, causing significant disruptions such as ousting 
a Speaker supported by 97 percent of the Conference and blocking rules 
backed by 95 percent.
  These actions undermined the unity and focus of our Conference, 
jeopardizing our ability to address the challenges facing our great 
Nation, Mr. Speaker.
  Both Speakers McCarthy and Johnson faced challenges in addressing 
these groups' tactics and any action that risked further obstruction. 
The one-Member threshold for the motion to vacate allowed this faction 
to repeatedly derail our efforts, distracting us from our mandate to 
govern effectively.
  Raising the threshold for the motion to vacate to nine Members is a 
commonsense solution that addresses these issues while maintaining 
accountability. This change ensures that leadership challenges are not 
frivolously pursued but, instead, reflect a genuine, collective concern 
shared by a broader group of Members. It strikes a balance between 
protecting a Speaker's ability to lead and preserving the right of 
Members to hold leadership accountable.
  I was proud to be among the Republican Main Street Caucus members who 
collaborated with the House Freedom Caucus to reach this threshold 
agreement back in November. However, let me be clear. This provision is 
not about silencing dissent but about ensuring stability. It prevents 
the disruptive tactics of a small minority from overshadowing the work 
of the majority and, most importantly, Mr. Speaker, the will of the 
American people.
  This is about governing responsibly and showing that we can rise 
above internal discord to address the pressing issues facing our 
Nation. As a husband, father of three daughters, and a Navy veteran, I 
understand the importance of leadership rooted in trust, discipline, 
and stability. Effective leadership requires the confidence of those 
you serve and the ability to make tough decisions without the constant 
threat of unwarranted challenges. This provision provides that 
foundation, ensuring that the Speaker can lead with strength while 
remaining accountable to this body and our Conference.
  Mr. Speaker, the American people deserve a Congress that works for 
them, not one that is paralyzed by internal strife. Raising the 
threshold for the motion to vacate is a necessary step towards 
achieving that goal.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this provision and the 
rules package as a whole. Let us show the American people that we are 
committed to governing responsibly and delivering the results they 
expect and deserve.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I just say to the gentleman who just spoke that I agree 
with him that he has got some problems in the Republican Conference 
with some extremist Members. He, again, keeps using this word mandate, 
mandate. Again, I remind Republicans that they lost seats in the last 
election. However, you can't claim that you have this mandate to do 
whatever the heck you want to do and then expect us to, once again, 
come to your rescue to save Speaker Johnson if nine extreme Members in 
your Conference want to challenge him and vacate the Speaker's chair.
  So, in any event, I just find it kind of mind-boggling that, again, 
Republicans are living in this fantasy world where they think somehow 
they have this huge majority here. Look at the difficulty we witnessed 
today with electing a Speaker of the House.
  You guys are in charge. You have a mandate to put on your mandate 
pants and do the stuff you say you want to do or work with us, work 
with us in a bipartisan way to actually deliver for the American 
people.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from New Mexico (Ms. 
Leger Fernandez).
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are advised to continue to direct 
their remarks to the Chair.
  Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, today we began a new session of 
Congress. Americans want us to address the high cost of living, help 
them buy a home of their own, and keep Social Security and Medicare 
alive.
  It is a new year. The Republicans' rules package is the same old, the 
same old division and the same old dysfunction and disregard for 
working families from the last 2 years.
  This rule automatically puts on the floor Republicans' top 
legislative priorities. Not a single one of their legislative 
priorities addresses the high cost of living. Not a single one allows 
amendments to make the bill better or more bipartisan.
  Republicans seem afraid of debate and amendments. I think that is 
because they are afraid that the more we debate their bills, the more 
Americans will hear that Republicans keep siding with the billionaire 
bros rather than standing with working families.
  Vote ``no'' on the rules package, and vote ``yes'' for working 
families and women's healthcare.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. Langworthy).
  Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this rules 
package for the 119th Congress.
  As my colleagues have said before, the American people sent us a 
mandate in November to deliver on President Trump's America First 
agenda, focused on reining in the Federal Government, securing our 
borders, protecting the freedom of individuals, and ending, once and 
for all, the woke policies of the left that are holding our country 
back.
  This package before us will empower House Republicans to build off 
the important work begun last Congress. It sets the stage for achieving 
serious wins for the American people. It paves the way for a Congress 
that can operate more efficiently and more transparently and extends 
the power of the Judiciary Committee to continue the House's important 
work of investigating any potential corruption, crime, or misconduct 
that was perpetrated under the Biden-Harris administration.
  Finally, the rules package provides for immediate consideration of 12 
measures that are focused on the issues the American people sent us 
here to solve: securing our borders, unleashing our domestic energy 
production, protecting communities from the flood of lethal fentanyl in 
our country, and standing up for life and liberty for all Americans.
  Mr. Speaker, the American people sent us here with a majority to 
deliver real, lasting change. This rules package will help us ensure 
that the House can stay laser focused on delivering that change in the 
119th Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, I strongly support the rules package before us today, 
and I urge my colleagues to support it as well.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I just want to, for the record, correct 
the gentleman on the use of the word ``mandate.'' I am not sure he 
understands what it means. I think maybe it means different things.
  My Republican friends actually lost seats in the last election. They 
have the slimmest majority of any majority in nearly 100 years, and we 
have already seen the chaos and the disarray within the Republican 
Conference when this rules package that we are debating today was 
delayed in coming to the floor because you had to satisfy your 
extremist Members by making changes to two rules. So I don't really get 
it.

[[Page H18]]

  Anyway, I will just keep on correcting the record.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Arizona (Ms. 
Ansari).
  Ms. ANSARI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in defense of immigrant 
communities such as the one I come from and now proudly represent in 
Arizona's Third Congressional District.
  Like so many others in our district, I am a proud daughter of 
immigrant parents who came to the United States for a better life. 
Immigrants are an integral part of our community, and their 
contributions to our culture, our economy, and spirit are 
irreplaceable. In my district, over 64 languages are spoken.
  It is Congress' responsibility to ensure that every person in this 
country has a chance at the American Dream. However, the extreme 
immigration bills attached to this rules package are just the latest of 
an onslaught of attacks on our immigrant communities from extreme 
Republicans.
  Particularly, the provision to cut Federal funding from jurisdictions 
that provide critical services which would impact everything from 
roadway safety to public safety is another desperate attempt to further 
target and punish our most vulnerable. We can have secure borders 
without scapegoating immigrant communities and promoting xenophobia.
  Nothing in this package works to bring down the cost of living, 
protect American workers, or tackle inflation and healthcare costs.
  Mr. Speaker, do not be fooled by these distractions. That is why I 
urge a ``no'' vote on this measure.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Austin Scott).
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support the 
rules package for the 119th Congress.
  Last November the American people spoke and gave Republicans control 
of the House, the Senate, and the White House.
  Those same Americans are counting on us to deliver on the critical 
issues our country is facing, and this package begins that process, Mr. 
Speaker.
  It provides for consideration of 12 bills, including a bill to 
require the Secretary of Homeland Security to take into custody illegal 
immigrants who have been charged in the United States with theft, a 
bill to make the assault of a law enforcement officer a deportable 
offense, and a bill to prohibit a moratorium on the use of fracking.
  Mr. Speaker, energy and immigration are two of the reasons that the 
Republicans control the House, the Senate, and the White House.
  These issues are top of mind for almost all Americans, as are 
inflation, the tax code, our defense, and foreign policy.
  This package, Mr. Speaker, sets the tone, and I urge all of my 
colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this so we can get to work.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, again, I would just say in response to the 
gentleman who just spoke, yes, the tone that is being set by the new 
Republican majority is that of chaos. Again, this rules package that we 
are debating today already had to be changed twice today because you 
couldn't get enough votes within your Conference to pass it.
  He is right. The American people did speak in the election, and they 
decided that Republicans should have fewer seats in the House.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from Virginia 
(Mr. Scott).
  Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, instead of fast-tracking culture 
war issues in the rules or cutting off dissent within the Republican 
Conference, we should usher in the 119th Congress by prioritizing the 
issues that Americans face daily. For example, how can we reduce the 
cost of prescription drugs so that Americans can afford to pay for the 
lifesaving care they need?

  During the last Congress, my Democratic colleagues and I introduced 
the Lower Drug Costs for American Families Act which builds upon the 
historic progress of the Inflation Reduction Act by expanding the 
Medicare drug price negotiation program. The bill would combat Big 
Pharma's price gouging of the American people by increasing the number 
of drugs eligible for negotiation and ensuring that Americans with 
private health insurance have access to those lower prices.
  Hardworking American families shouldn't have to choose between paying 
for their medicine or paying for rent or other necessities while drug 
companies continue to enjoy record profits. It is time for Congress to 
rein in corporate greed and expand the Inflation Reduction Act's 
historic drug cost saving measures to more Americans.
  Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, the gentleman from 
Massachusetts has said that he will offer an amendment which will 
provide for the consideration of our legislation to lower drug costs as 
part of the rules package.
  We should defeat the previous question, and Americans would then be 
able to enjoy those lower drug prices.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. Lucas).
  Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the rules package for the 
119th Congress. Mr. Speaker, passing this rules package will allow the 
people's House to be more efficient, effective, and transparent.
  The American people sent us here to deliver results, to thoughtfully 
craft legislation that will improve the lives of all Americans, to 
enact policies that will lower taxes and lower the cost of necessities 
like groceries and gas, and to create jobs here at home.
  We have the responsibility to do that in this Congress.
  I support this rules package because it is good for the institution 
of the House. This package strengthens and affirms the Article I 
authorities and restores fiscal responsibility in government.
  Our constituents sent us here to legislate. Legislating is hard work. 
I have done it on three different committees. Legislating takes time to 
get right. I spent 2\1/2\ years on a farm bill once and got it right. 
That is why it is imperative that we pass this package and get to work.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
rules package.
  I must offer one final thought to my good friend. Maybe the question 
is not the size of the Republican majority in the United States House. 
Maybe the question is: Why did the American voters give the Presidency 
back to the Republicans?
  Why did the American voters give the United States Senate back to a 
Republican majority and at the same time leave us in the majority?
  Maybe the soul-searching needs to be: Why are my friends still in the 
minority after all of that?
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I would just respond to the gentleman by 
saying: Why did the American people decide that the Republicans should 
have fewer seats in the House of Representatives?
  Maybe the message they were sending is that they want us to work 
together, and this rules package shows that the Republicans have no 
intention of working in a bipartisan way to get things done for the 
American people.
  Mr. Speaker, if the motion to commit is adopted, we will bring of up 
H.R. 3899, the American Family Act under a modified open rule so that 
all Members can offer amendments to the bill, unlike the 12 closed 
rules that are actually contained in this package, completely closed.
  Mr. Speaker, Democrats enhanced the tax credit in the American Rescue 
Plan to help families stay on their feet in the wake of the COVID 
pandemic, but families are still facing the rising costs of rent, 
groceries, and basics needs.

                              {time}  1715

  That is why we must pass the Child Care for American Families Act to 
make the improved child tax credit permanent and refundable.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from Connecticut 
(Ms. DeLauro), the author of the Child Care for American Families Act, 
to discuss this motion.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, when we conclude this rules debate, I will 
offer a motion to commit to add the expanded monthly child tax credit, 
the best antidote to the high cost of living

[[Page H19]]

and one of the most cost-effective programs in government ever.
  Instead of the Republican majority's corporate tax cut agenda, we cut 
taxes for the middle class and for children so that hard-pressed 
families everywhere can make ends meet.
  The child tax credit is the most effective tool we have in fighting 
against rising costs. It is about financial stability for families in a 
sea of uncertainty. That is why so many Republicans have their own 
proposals.
  Nothing in this rules package helps working people. Nothing in their 
first 12 bills would help working people. There is nothing about 
addressing rising costs. Make no mistake: A vote against the motion to 
commit means Republicans are raising taxes on the middle class in order 
to give away the farm to the biggest corporations and the wealthiest 
Americans.
  The expanded monthly child tax credit was the largest tax cut for 
working families in generations and a lifeline to the middle class. It 
drove the largest decrease in child poverty in history. People could 
pay their electric bills, fill their tanks with gas, pay for childcare, 
and more.
  It reached more than 61 million children, lifted 4 million out of 
poverty, and led to a 26 percent decline in hunger in families with 
children.
  With such a razor-thin majority, now is the time to make this a 
bipartisan tax cut for the middle class. Do the right thing. Vote 
``yes'' on the motion to commit.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Arkansas (Mr. Crawford).
  Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding,
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the House rules package. 
This package maintains reforms like the 72-hour rule and CutGo rule 
that we instituted in the 118th Congress.
  It also continues the Holman rule, which requires CBO to review the 
inflationary impacts of certain legislation that increases mandatory 
spending. It officially eliminates the Office of Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion and ensures that we have continuity in the speakership.
  It also allows electronic voting in committees, which I can tell 
Members from my experience on the T&I committee that it has greatly 
shortened the timeframe for voting and has made voting easier and more 
accurate.
  It codifies a current separate order of the House providing spending 
reduction accounts within appropriations bills so that Members can 
actually save money during amendment debate.
  The rules also continue a number of good governance measures for the 
House, including prohibiting former Members who are registered 
lobbyists or foreign agents from using House exercise facilities, 
improving the public availability of House documents in machine-
readable formats, and ensuring that all House employees have 
appropriate access to the Ethics Committee and the Office of 
Congressional Workplace Rights.
  The House functions best when the rules allow us to function 
efficiently and effectively, and these rules do just that.
  Finally, the rules package makes in order 12 bills that show our 
party's unequivocal support for securing our border, standing up for 
the right to life, ensuring that only American citizens are allowed to 
vote in elections for national office, providing energy at lower costs 
for American families and businesses, and stopping the scourge of drugs 
like fentanyl from entering our communities.
  I am so proud of the work that our Speaker has done, and I thank our 
entire leadership team for putting together this fair and forward-
thinking package. I will be casting my vote in favor of this package, 
and I ask my colleagues to do the same.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I get a kick out of when Republicans try 
to take credit for the 72-hour rule. By the way, it is a rule that I 
wrote when I was chairman of the Rules Committee.
  There are no changes to the 72-hour rule in this rules package. The 
only changes Republicans made was it was waived a few times in the last 
Congress. In fact, the majority waived it on the massive continuing 
resolution bill that we dealt with before the holiday break. Anyway, I 
am glad that some of the things that I put into place still remain, and 
I appreciate the nice words.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from New York 
(Mr. Suozzi).
  Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I start by congratulating the Speaker and 
our fellow colleagues for taking the oath of office today. This marks a 
new opportunity for us as Democrats and Republicans to work together on 
behalf of the American people.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the amendment to the current rules 
package to include the Lowering Drug Costs for American Families Act, 
which would bring down the cost of prescription drugs for all 
Americans.
  Mr. Speaker, prescription drugs are too expensive. To quote 
President-elect Trump from January 2017, when speaking about the 
pharmaceutical drug companies, he said: These guys are getting away 
with murder.
  He supported, as does the Lowering Drug Costs for American Families 
Act, drug price negotiations in order to save money for American 
working families. This should not be a Republican or Democratic issue. 
In fact, it should be the first thing in this Congress that unites us 
together to solve problems for the American people.
  This amendment is a commonsense proposal. It would make lifesaving 
drugs more affordable for Americans on private health insurance, and it 
saves taxpayers money.

  In its first year, the Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program, 
passed through the Biden administration on a Democratic majority, will 
save Medicare $6 billion as part of the IRA, and it will save the 
American people $1.5 billion more.
  In fact, CBO has predicted that the Medicare drug price negotiations 
under the IRA will save $100 billion over 10 years. DOGE should love 
this program.
  This new amendment would expand the Medicare negotiated drug prices 
to include the private sector, as well, saving the American people 
billions of dollars.
  This initiative is overwhelmingly popular among the American people. 
There is support by 85 percent of voters for the Federal Government 
negotiating prescription drug prices, including at least three-quarters 
of Republicans. My fellow Democrats and I are ready to work across the 
aisle on many solutions to lower health costs for Americans.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentleman from New York.
  Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, let's show the American people that we can 
work together, especially for a program that was supported by 
President-elect Trump during the beginning of his last Presidency.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage the inclusion of the Lowering Drug Costs for 
American Families Act in the rules package.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Washington (Ms. Jayapal).
  Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, this rules package makes very clear what 
the Republican majority will not do in the 119th Congress.
  After presiding over the 118th Congress and enacting the least amount 
of legislation in history signed into law that actually benefits the 
American people, Republicans want to continue that tradition by fast-
tracking 12 bills that do nothing to lower costs or raise wages for the 
American people.
  None of the bills prioritized in this package take on the biggest 
corporations and wealthiest individuals who profit from the high prices 
and junk fees and corporate concentration that is harming Americans 
across this country because guess what: These corporations and wealthy 
individuals are the ones that are controlling the Republican Party for 
their own benefit.
  Just look at the combined wealth of the individuals that Donald Trump 
has nominated for this Cabinet. There is a total wealth of over $450 
billion with a b. With all of those conflicts of interest present and 
the ethics scandals of numerous Republican Members, perhaps that is why 
this Republican majority no longer wants an Office of Congressional 
Ethics. That is right. They want to jettison ethics for ``conduct.''
  This package tries to fool the American people by scapegoating 
immigrants and trans people in the hopes

[[Page H20]]

that it will distract voters from the fact that the first move of 
Republicans in the 119th Congress is to do absolutely nothing to help 
them and their family build a better life.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to vote ``no.''
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that the chair 
may reduce to 5 minutes the minimum time for electronic voting on any 
question relating to House resolution 5 that follows the 15-minute 
vote.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Minnesota?
  There was no objection.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is 
remaining.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Massachusetts has 4\1/2\ 
minutes remaining. The gentlewoman from Minnesota has 14\1/2\ minutes 
remaining.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time. The 
last election was one of the closest in history. Republicans have the 
slimmest majority in nearly a century. If there were a shift of just a 
few thousand votes, this Chamber would be led by Democrats.
  It seems my friends didn't get the message, and Republicans still 
don't get it. The majority doesn't listen. Americans do not want 
Republican extremism. They want cooperation. They want Congress to 
focus on compromise, not chaos. They don't want the far right running 
this place. When I talk to people in my district, they are sick of all 
of this. They are sick of all of this. They are tired of the fighting, 
the toxicity, and the partisanship. They want us to work together to 
get stuff done.
  The very first thing that Republicans are doing is making this place 
even more polarized, more toxic, and more dysfunctional. Republicans 
want to double down on the political infighting and the extremism. Even 
these rules are designed to ram through their extremism.
  Look closely at the bills that they are paving the way for. Does 
anyone notice what is missing? My colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle are not doing a single thing Republicans promised to do. The 
majority ran on the economy. My colleagues talked about egg prices and 
gas. Where is that today?
  There is nothing for workers, nothing to lower food prices, nothing 
about rent prices or helping people to buy homes, nothing about 
inflation or prescription drugs, nothing on creating jobs, and nothing 
on the economy. Someone should ask: What happened to all of their 
promises? Was it all BS?
  Look at the people that they are putting in power. First of all, they 
are turning the White House Cabinet into a junk drawer full of out-of-
touch billionaires and insiders, nobody who understands the struggles 
of regular people. His nomination for Treasury Secretary is a 
billionaire. His nomination for Education Secretary is a billionaire, 
as well as his nominations for his top Secretaries, including for 
United States Department of Health & Human Services, Department of 
Energy, and Department of the Interior.

  I mean, come on. This is a Cabinet of millionaires and billionaires. 
These people don't pump their own gas. These people don't buy their own 
groceries. These are total trust fund babies who take helicopters to 
work. They are totally out of touch with reality. That is who 
Republicans are putting in charge.
  Here is the deal, and here is the reality: Democrats didn't win the 
last election, and we need to own that, and we need to make changes. 
From the ground up, we need to make sure that we are of, by, and for 
the people. We need to do a better job of taking on corporate special 
interests, but let me be clear that we are not giving up. We are going 
to show up, and we are going to do what we were sent here to do.
  We will work with Speaker Johnson where we can, but we will not allow 
this House to become a rubber stamp for his extremist policies, to help 
insiders, and benefit millionaires and billionaires at the expense of 
everyone else.
  The American people deserve a hell of a lot better, and I promise 
that Democrats will fight for a Congress that works for everyone. 
Democrats will fight not just for the powerful, not just for the 
wealthy or the well-connected, but for everyone. That is our 
commitment, and that is our promise.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote on this package, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time. I 
remind the ranking member that November brought us a House Republican 
majority, a Senate Republican majority, and President-elect Donald 
Trump. We have work to do, and we are going to move forward.
  Before we do, in response to the ranking member, I will clear up a 
few things that he has been complaining about.
  The 118th Congress had numerous challenges, but that doesn't diminish 
the work that was accomplished to broaden the voices from the highest 
ranking to the rank and file, by loosening a number of holdover 
provisions from the previous majority which enabled then-Speaker Pelosi 
to maintain a vicelike grip over the House.
  In addition, it is important to highlight that the 118th Congress 
considered 83 structured rules, a 40 percent increase from the 
Democratic-controlled 117th Congress.
  For closed rules, more context is needed, as over a third of those 
closed rules were because no amendments were offered, making the rules 
closed by definition.
  Also, when it comes to amendments, while the minority may want to 
highlight the number of blocked amendments, this does not take into 
account amendments that were not eligible for consideration because of 
the points of order that lay against them.
  It is important to highlight that over 3,000 amendments were made in 
order in the 118th Congress, over 1,000 of which were bipartisan or 
minority-led amendments. We are really here to move forward.
  I again congratulate Speaker Johnson, and I am excited to get to work 
and deliver results for the American people. That is why I support this 
rules package.
  This package includes 12 rules that set the tone for House 
Republicans to hit the ground running and deliver on our commitment to 
the American people.

                              {time}  1730

  These bills will help secure our borders, protect our communities, 
counter China's influence, and restore sanity in the Federal 
Government.
  Part of this package includes a bill that prevents Federal funding 
from going to illegal aliens in sanctuary jurisdictions. An 
overwhelming number of voters chose to support President Trump's plan 
to remove certain illegal aliens from our country. States and cities 
that choose to ignore the will of the people and violate Federal law 
should not receive Federal funding.
  I am particularly eager to vote for a bill that protects newborns. It 
requires healthcare practitioners to exercise the proper degree of care 
for an infant who survives an attempted abortion. I am not sure how 
anyone could oppose legislation that requires treatment for infants who 
are born alive.
  In addition, this rule contains a bill to protect women in sports and 
a bill to require proof of citizenship to register to vote in Federal 
elections. These are things that the American people have sent us here 
to do.
  For too long, Democrats have been pushing a woke agenda that, 
frankly, benefits criminals more than our own citizens.
  These bills are common sense, and they are what the American people 
voted for.
  This rules package will help us move swiftly to deliver on our 
promise to the American people and help President Trump with his 
America First agenda. I look forward to voting for this rules package, 
and I look forward to our work ahead with Speaker Johnson, Senate 
Leader Thune, and President Trump.
  The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

   An Amendment to H. Res. 5 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusets

       At the end of the resolution, add the following new 
     section:
       Sec. 6. Lowering Drug Costs for American Families Act.
       Not later than January 12, 2025, the Speaker shall, 
     pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule

[[Page H21]]

     XVIII, declare the House resolved into the Committee of the 
     Whole House on the State of the Union for consideration of a 
     bill consisting of the text of H.R. 4895 of the One Hundred 
     Eighteenth Congress, as introduced on July 26, 2023, to amend 
     title XI of the Social Security Act to expand the drug price 
     negotiation program, and for other purposes. The first 
     reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
     order against consideration of the bill are waived. General 
     debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
     hour equally divided and controlled by the Majority Leader 
     and the Minority Leader or their respective designees. After 
     general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment 
     under the five-minute rule. The bill shall be considered as 
     read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
     waived. No amendment shall be in order except: (1) those 
     amendments to the bill received for printing in the portion 
     of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose in 
     clause 8 of rule XVIII dated at least one day before the day 
     of consideration of the amendment; and (2) up to 20 pro forma 
     amendments for the purpose of debate, 10 of which may be 
     offered by the Majority Leader or a designee and 10 of which 
     may be offered by the Minority Leader or a designee. Each 
     amendment so received may be offered only by the Member who 
     caused it to be printed or a designee and shall be considered 
     as read if printed. At the conclusion of consideration of the 
     bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
     bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
     adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered 
     on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 
     intervening motion except one motion to recommit.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time, and 
I move the previous question on the resolution.
  The previous question was ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on ordering the previous 
question.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 216, 
nays 210, not voting 8, as follows:

                              [Roll No. 3]

                               YEAS--216

     Aderholt
     Alford
     Allen
     Amodei (NV)
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Baird
     Balderson
     Barr
     Barrett
     Baumgartner
     Bean (FL)
     Begich
     Bentz
     Bergman
     Bice
     Biggs (AZ)
     Biggs (SC)
     Bilirakis
     Boebert
     Bost
     Brecheen
     Bresnahan
     Buchanan
     Burchett
     Burlison
     Calvert
     Cammack
     Carey
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Ciscomani
     Cline
     Cloud
     Clyde
     Cole
     Collins
     Comer
     Crane
     Crank
     Crawford
     Crenshaw
     Davidson
     De La Cruz
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donalds
     Downing
     Dunn (FL)
     Edwards
     Ellzey
     Emmer
     Estes
     Evans (CO)
     Ezell
     Fallon
     Fedorchak
     Feenstra
     Finstad
     Fischbach
     Fitzgerald
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flood
     Fong
     Franklin, Scott
     Fry
     Fulcher
     Garbarino
     Gill (TX)
     Gimenez
     Goldman (TX)
     Gonzales, Tony
     Gooden
     Gosar
     Graves
     Green (TN)
     Greene (GA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guest
     Guthrie
     Hageman
     Hamadeh (AZ)
     Haridopolos
     Harrigan
     Harris (MD)
     Harris (NC)
     Harshbarger
     Hern (OK)
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill (AR)
     Hinson
     Houchin
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hunt
     Hurd (CO)
     Issa
     Jack
     Jackson (TX)
     James
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (SD)
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Joyce (PA)
     Kean
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy (UT)
     Kiggans (VA)
     Kiley (CA)
     Kim
     Knott
     Kustoff
     LaHood
     LaLota
     LaMalfa
     Langworthy
     Latta
     Lawler
     Lee (FL)
     Letlow
     Loudermilk
     Lucas
     Luna
     Luttrell
     Mace
     Mackenzie
     Malliotakis
     Maloy
     Mann
     Massie
     Mast
     McCaul
     McClain
     McClintock
     McCormick
     McDowell
     McGuire
     Messmer
     Meuser
     Miller (IL)
     Miller (OH)
     Miller (WV)
     Miller-Meeks
     Mills
     Moolenaar
     Moore (AL)
     Moore (NC)
     Moore (UT)
     Moore (WV)
     Moran
     Murphy
     Nehls
     Newhouse
     Norman
     Nunn (IA)
     Obernolte
     Onder
     Owens
     Palmer
     Perry
     Pfluger
     Reschenthaler
     Rogers (KY)
     Rose
     Rouzer
     Roy
     Rulli
     Rutherford
     Salazar
     Scalise
     Schmidt
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Self
     Sessions
     Shreve
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smucker
     Spartz
     Stauber
     Stefanik
     Steil
     Steube
     Strong
     Stutzman
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Tiffany
     Timmons
     Turner (OH)
     Valadao
     Van Drew
     Van Duyne
     Van Orden
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Waltz
     Weber (TX)
     Webster (FL)
     Westerman
     Wied
     Williams (TX)
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Yakym
     Zinke

                               NAYS--210

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amo
     Ansari
     Auchincloss
     Balint
     Barragan
     Beatty
     Bell
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop
     Bonamici
     Boyle (PA)
     Brown
     Brownley
     Budzinski
     Bynum
     Carbajal
     Carson
     Carter (LA)
     Casar
     Case
     Casten
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Cherfilus-McCormick
     Chu
     Cisneros
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Craig
     Crockett
     Crow
     Cuellar
     Davids (KS)
     Davis (IL)
     Davis (NC)
     Dean (PA)
     DeGette
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Deluzio
     DeSaulnier
     Dexter
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Elfreth
     Escobar
     Espaillat
     Evans (PA)
     Fields
     Figures
     Fletcher
     Foster
     Foushee
     Frankel, Lois
     Friedman
     Frost
     Garamendi
     Garcia (CA)
     Garcia (IL)
     Garcia (TX)
     Gillen
     Golden (ME)
     Goldman (NY)
     Gomez
     Gonzalez, V.
     Goodlander
     Gottheimer
     Gray
     Green, Al (TX)
     Harder (CA)
     Hayes
     Himes
     Horsford
     Houlahan
     Hoyer
     Hoyle (OR)
     Huffman
     Ivey
     Jackson (IL)
     Jacobs
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (TX)
     Kamlager-Dove
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy (NY)
     Khanna
     Krishnamoorthi
     Landsman
     Larsen (WA)
     Latimer
     Lee (NV)
     Lee (PA)
     Leger Fernandez
     Levin
     Liccardo
     Lieu
     Lofgren
     Magaziner
     Mannion
     Matsui
     McBath
     McBride
     McClain Delaney
     McClellan
     McCollum
     McDonald Rivet
     McGarvey
     McGovern
     McIver
     Meeks
     Menendez
     Meng
     Mfume
     Min
     Moore (WI)
     Morelle
     Morrison
     Moskowitz
     Moulton
     Mrvan
     Mullin
     Nadler
     Neguse
     Norcross
     Ocasio-Cortez
     Olszewski
     Omar
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pappas
     Pelosi
     Perez
     Peters
     Pettersen
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Pou
     Pressley
     Quigley
     Ramirez
     Randall
     Raskin
     Riley (NY)
     Rivas
     Ross
     Ruiz
     Ryan
     Salinas
     Sanchez
     Scanlon
     Schakowsky
     Schneider
     Scholten
     Schrier
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Sewell
     Sherman
     Sherrill
     Simon
     Smith (WA)
     Sorensen
     Soto
     Stansbury
     Stanton
     Stevens
     Strickland
     Subramanyam
     Suozzi
     Swalwell
     Sykes
     Takano
     Thanedar
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tlaib
     Tokuda
     Tonko
     Torres (CA)
     Torres (NY)
     Trahan
     Tran
     Turner (TX)
     Underwood
     Vargas
     Vasquez
     Veasey
     Velazquez
     Vindman
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters
     Watson Coleman
     Whitesides
     Williams (GA)
     Wilson (FL)

                             NOT VOTING--8

     Cleaver
     Foxx
     Grijalva
     Larson (CT)
     Lynch
     Neal
     Ogles
     Rogers (AL)

                              {time}  1754

  Mr. McGARVEY changed his vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''
  So the previous question was ordered.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.


                            Motion to Commit

  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to commit at the desk.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to commit.
  The Clerk read as follows:

       Ms. DeLauro of Connecticut moves to commit the resolution 
     (H. Res. 5) to a select committee composed of the Majority 
     Leader and the Minority Leader with instructions to report 
     the same back to the House forthwith with the following 
     amendment:
       At the end of the resolution, add the following new 
     section:
       Sec. 6. American Family Act.
       Not later than January 12, 2025, the Speaker shall, 
     pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
     resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the State 
     of the Union for consideration of a bill consisting of the 
     text of H.R. 3899 of the One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, as 
     introduced on June 7, 2023, to amend the Internal Revenue 
     Code of 1986 to establish a refundable child tax credit with 
     monthly advance payment. The first reading of the bill shall 
     be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration 
     of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to 
     the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
     controlled by the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader or 
     their respective designees. After general debate the bill 
     shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. 
     The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
     against provisions in the bill are waived. No amendment shall 
     be in order except: (1) those amendments to the bill received 
     for printing in the portion of the Congressional Record 
     designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII dated 
     at least one day before the day of consideration of the 
     amendment; and (2) up to 20 pro forma amendments for the 
     purpose of debate, 10 of which may be offered by the Majority 
     Leader or a designee and 10 of which may be offered by the 
     Minority Leader or a designee. Each amendment so received may 
     be offered only by the Member who caused it to be printed or 
     a designee and shall be considered as read if printed. At the 
     conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
     Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with 
     such amendments as may have been

[[Page H22]]

     adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered 
     on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 
     intervening motion except one motion to recommit.
  Ms. DeLAURO (during the reading). Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent to dispense with the reading.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Connecticut?
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the previous question is 
ordered on the motion to commit.
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion to commit.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the order of the House of today, 
this will be a 5-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 209, 
nays 214, not voting 11, as follows:

                              [Roll No. 4]

                               YEAS--209

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amo
     Ansari
     Auchincloss
     Balint
     Barragan
     Beatty
     Bell
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop
     Bonamici
     Boyle (PA)
     Brown
     Brownley
     Budzinski
     Bynum
     Carbajal
     Carson
     Carter (LA)
     Casar
     Case
     Casten
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Cherfilus-McCormick
     Chu
     Cisneros
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Craig
     Crockett
     Crow
     Cuellar
     Davids (KS)
     Davis (IL)
     Davis (NC)
     Dean (PA)
     DeGette
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Deluzio
     DeSaulnier
     Dexter
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Elfreth
     Escobar
     Espaillat
     Evans (PA)
     Fields
     Figures
     Fletcher
     Foster
     Foushee
     Frankel, Lois
     Friedman
     Frost
     Garamendi
     Garcia (CA)
     Garcia (IL)
     Garcia (TX)
     Gillen
     Golden (ME)
     Goldman (NY)
     Gomez
     Gonzalez, V.
     Goodlander
     Gottheimer
     Gray
     Green, Al (TX)
     Harder (CA)
     Hayes
     Himes
     Horsford
     Houlahan
     Hoyer
     Hoyle (OR)
     Huffman
     Ivey
     Jacobs
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (TX)
     Kamlager-Dove
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy (NY)
     Khanna
     Krishnamoorthi
     Landsman
     Larsen (WA)
     Latimer
     Lee (NV)
     Lee (PA)
     Leger Fernandez
     Levin
     Liccardo
     Lieu
     Lofgren
     Magaziner
     Mannion
     Matsui
     McBath
     McBride
     McClain Delaney
     McClellan
     McCollum
     McDonald Rivet
     McGarvey
     McGovern
     McIver
     Meeks
     Menendez
     Meng
     Mfume
     Min
     Moore (WI)
     Morelle
     Morrison
     Moskowitz
     Moulton
     Mrvan
     Mullin
     Nadler
     Neguse
     Ocasio-Cortez
     Olszewski
     Omar
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pappas
     Pelosi
     Perez
     Peters
     Pettersen
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Pou
     Pressley
     Quigley
     Ramirez
     Randall
     Raskin
     Riley (NY)
     Rivas
     Ross
     Ruiz
     Ryan
     Salinas
     Sanchez
     Scanlon
     Schakowsky
     Schneider
     Scholten
     Schrier
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Sewell
     Sherman
     Sherrill
     Simon
     Smith (WA)
     Sorensen
     Soto
     Stansbury
     Stanton
     Stevens
     Strickland
     Subramanyam
     Suozzi
     Swalwell
     Sykes
     Takano
     Thanedar
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tlaib
     Tokuda
     Tonko
     Torres (CA)
     Torres (NY)
     Trahan
     Tran
     Turner (TX)
     Underwood
     Vargas
     Vasquez
     Veasey
     Velazquez
     Vindman
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters
     Watson Coleman
     Whitesides
     Williams (GA)
     Wilson (FL)

                               NAYS--214

     Aderholt
     Alford
     Allen
     Amodei (NV)
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Baird
     Balderson
     Barr
     Barrett
     Baumgartner
     Bean (FL)
     Bentz
     Bergman
     Bice
     Biggs (AZ)
     Biggs (SC)
     Bilirakis
     Boebert
     Bost
     Brecheen
     Bresnahan
     Buchanan
     Burchett
     Burlison
     Calvert
     Cammack
     Carey
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Ciscomani
     Cline
     Cloud
     Clyde
     Cole
     Collins
     Comer
     Crane
     Crank
     Crawford
     Crenshaw
     Davidson
     De La Cruz
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donalds
     Downing
     Dunn (FL)
     Edwards
     Ellzey
     Emmer
     Estes
     Evans (CO)
     Ezell
     Fallon
     Fedorchak
     Feenstra
     Finstad
     Fischbach
     Fitzgerald
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flood
     Fong
     Franklin, Scott
     Fry
     Fulcher
     Garbarino
     Gill (TX)
     Gimenez
     Goldman (TX)
     Gonzales, Tony
     Gooden
     Gosar
     Graves
     Greene (GA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guest
     Guthrie
     Hageman
     Hamadeh (AZ)
     Haridopolos
     Harrigan
     Harris (MD)
     Harris (NC)
     Harshbarger
     Hern (OK)
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill (AR)
     Hinson
     Houchin
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hunt
     Hurd (CO)
     Issa
     Jack
     Jackson (TX)
     James
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (SD)
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Joyce (PA)
     Kean
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy (UT)
     Kiggans (VA)
     Kiley (CA)
     Kim
     Knott
     Kustoff
     LaHood
     LaLota
     LaMalfa
     Langworthy
     Latta
     Lawler
     Lee (FL)
     Letlow
     Loudermilk
     Lucas
     Luna
     Luttrell
     Mace
     Mackenzie
     Malliotakis
     Maloy
     Mann
     Massie
     Mast
     McCaul
     McClain
     McClintock
     McCormick
     McDowell
     McGuire
     Messmer
     Meuser
     Miller (IL)
     Miller (OH)
     Miller (WV)
     Miller-Meeks
     Mills
     Moolenaar
     Moore (AL)
     Moore (NC)
     Moore (UT)
     Moore (WV)
     Moran
     Murphy
     Nehls
     Newhouse
     Norman
     Nunn (IA)
     Obernolte
     Ogles
     Onder
     Palmer
     Perry
     Pfluger
     Reschenthaler
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rose
     Rouzer
     Roy
     Rulli
     Rutherford
     Salazar
     Scalise
     Schmidt
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Self
     Sessions
     Shreve
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smucker
     Spartz
     Stauber
     Stefanik
     Steil
     Steube
     Strong
     Stutzman
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Tiffany
     Timmons
     Turner (OH)
     Valadao
     Van Drew
     Van Duyne
     Van Orden
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Waltz
     Weber (TX)
     Westerman
     Wied
     Williams (TX)
     Wilson (SC)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Yakym
     Zinke

                             NOT VOTING--11

     Begich
     Foxx
     Green (TN)
     Grijalva
     Jackson (IL)
     Larson (CT)
     Lynch
     Neal
     Norcross
     Owens
     Webster (FL)


                Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes 
remaining.

                              {time}  1801

  So the motion to commit was rejected.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the resolution.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. This will be a 5-minute vote.
  The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 215, 
nays 209, not voting 10, as follows:

                              [Roll No. 5]

                               YEAS--215

     Aderholt
     Alford
     Allen
     Amodei (NV)
     Arrington
     Babin
     Bacon
     Baird
     Balderson
     Barr
     Barrett
     Baumgartner
     Bean (FL)
     Bentz
     Bergman
     Bice
     Biggs (AZ)
     Biggs (SC)
     Bilirakis
     Boebert
     Bost
     Brecheen
     Bresnahan
     Buchanan
     Burchett
     Burlison
     Calvert
     Cammack
     Carey
     Carter (GA)
     Carter (TX)
     Ciscomani
     Cline
     Cloud
     Clyde
     Cole
     Collins
     Comer
     Crane
     Crank
     Crawford
     Crenshaw
     Davidson
     De La Cruz
     DesJarlais
     Diaz-Balart
     Donalds
     Downing
     Dunn (FL)
     Edwards
     Ellzey
     Emmer
     Estes
     Evans (CO)
     Ezell
     Fallon
     Fedorchak
     Feenstra
     Finstad
     Fischbach
     Fitzgerald
     Fitzpatrick
     Fleischmann
     Flood
     Fong
     Franklin, Scott
     Fry
     Fulcher
     Garbarino
     Gill (TX)
     Gimenez
     Goldman (TX)
     Gonzales, Tony
     Gonzalez, V.
     Gooden
     Gosar
     Graves
     Green (TN)
     Greene (GA)
     Griffith
     Grothman
     Guest
     Guthrie
     Hageman
     Hamadeh (AZ)
     Haridopolos
     Harrigan
     Harris (MD)
     Harris (NC)
     Harshbarger
     Hern (OK)
     Higgins (LA)
     Hill (AR)
     Hinson
     Houchin
     Hudson
     Huizenga
     Hunt
     Hurd (CO)
     Issa
     Jack
     Jackson (TX)
     James
     Johnson (LA)
     Johnson (SD)
     Jordan
     Joyce (OH)
     Joyce (PA)
     Kelly (MS)
     Kelly (PA)
     Kennedy (UT)
     Kiggans (VA)
     Kiley (CA)
     Kim
     Knott
     Kustoff
     LaHood
     LaLota
     LaMalfa
     Langworthy
     Latta
     Lawler
     Lee (FL)
     Letlow
     Loudermilk
     Lucas
     Luna
     Luttrell
     Mace
     Mackenzie
     Malliotakis
     Maloy
     Mann
     Massie
     Mast
     McCaul
     McClain
     McClintock
     McCormick
     McDowell
     McGuire
     Messmer
     Meuser
     Miller (IL)
     Miller (OH)
     Miller (WV)
     Miller-Meeks
     Mills
     Moolenaar
     Moore (AL)
     Moore (NC)
     Moore (UT)
     Moore (WV)
     Moran
     Murphy
     Nehls
     Newhouse
     Norman
     Nunn (IA)
     Obernolte
     Ogles
     Onder
     Owens
     Palmer
     Perry
     Pfluger
     Reschenthaler
     Rogers (AL)
     Rogers (KY)
     Rose
     Rouzer
     Roy
     Rulli
     Rutherford
     Salazar
     Scalise
     Schmidt
     Schweikert
     Scott, Austin
     Self
     Sessions
     Shreve
     Simpson
     Smith (MO)
     Smith (NE)
     Smith (NJ)
     Smucker
     Spartz
     Stauber
     Stefanik
     Steil
     Steube
     Strong
     Stutzman
     Taylor
     Tenney
     Thompson (PA)
     Tiffany
     Timmons
     Turner (OH)
     Valadao
     Van Drew
     Van Duyne
     Van Orden
     Wagner
     Walberg
     Waltz
     Weber (TX)
     Westerman
     Wied
     Williams (TX)
     Wittman
     Womack
     Yakym
     Zinke

[[Page H23]]


  


                               NAYS--209

     Adams
     Aguilar
     Amo
     Ansari
     Auchincloss
     Balint
     Barragan
     Beatty
     Bell
     Bera
     Beyer
     Bishop
     Bonamici
     Boyle (PA)
     Brown
     Brownley
     Budzinski
     Bynum
     Carbajal
     Carson
     Carter (LA)
     Casar
     Case
     Casten
     Castor (FL)
     Castro (TX)
     Cherfilus-McCormick
     Chu
     Cisneros
     Clark (MA)
     Clarke (NY)
     Cleaver
     Clyburn
     Cohen
     Conaway
     Connolly
     Correa
     Costa
     Courtney
     Craig
     Crockett
     Crow
     Cuellar
     Davids (KS)
     Davis (IL)
     Davis (NC)
     Dean (PA)
     DeGette
     DeLauro
     DelBene
     Deluzio
     DeSaulnier
     Dexter
     Dingell
     Doggett
     Elfreth
     Escobar
     Espaillat
     Evans (PA)
     Fields
     Figures
     Fletcher
     Foster
     Foushee
     Frankel, Lois
     Friedman
     Frost
     Garamendi
     Garcia (CA)
     Garcia (IL)
     Garcia (TX)
     Gillen
     Golden (ME)
     Goldman (NY)
     Gomez
     Goodlander
     Gottheimer
     Gray
     Green, Al (TX)
     Harder (CA)
     Hayes
     Himes
     Horsford
     Houlahan
     Hoyer
     Hoyle (OR)
     Huffman
     Ivey
     Jackson (IL)
     Jacobs
     Jayapal
     Jeffries
     Johnson (GA)
     Johnson (TX)
     Kamlager-Dove
     Kaptur
     Keating
     Kelly (IL)
     Kennedy (NY)
     Khanna
     Krishnamoorthi
     Landsman
     Larsen (WA)
     Latimer
     Lee (NV)
     Lee (PA)
     Leger Fernandez
     Levin
     Liccardo
     Lieu
     Lofgren
     Magaziner
     Mannion
     Matsui
     McBath
     McBride
     McClain Delaney
     McClellan
     McCollum
     McDonald Rivet
     McGarvey
     McGovern
     McIver
     Meeks
     Menendez
     Meng
     Mfume
     Min
     Moore (WI)
     Morelle
     Morrison
     Moskowitz
     Moulton
     Mrvan
     Mullin
     Nadler
     Neguse
     Norcross
     Ocasio-Cortez
     Olszewski
     Omar
     Pallone
     Panetta
     Pappas
     Pelosi
     Perez
     Peters
     Pettersen
     Pingree
     Pocan
     Pou
     Pressley
     Quigley
     Ramirez
     Randall
     Raskin
     Riley (NY)
     Rivas
     Ross
     Ruiz
     Ryan
     Salinas
     Sanchez
     Scanlon
     Schakowsky
     Schneider
     Scholten
     Schrier
     Scott (VA)
     Scott, David
     Sewell
     Sherman
     Sherrill
     Simon
     Smith (WA)
     Sorensen
     Soto
     Stansbury
     Stanton
     Stevens
     Strickland
     Subramanyam
     Suozzi
     Swalwell
     Sykes
     Takano
     Thanedar
     Thompson (CA)
     Thompson (MS)
     Titus
     Tlaib
     Tokuda
     Tonko
     Torres (CA)
     Torres (NY)
     Trahan
     Tran
     Turner (TX)
     Underwood
     Vasquez
     Veasey
     Velazquez
     Vindman
     Wasserman Schultz
     Waters
     Watson Coleman
     Whitesides
     Williams (GA)
     Wilson (FL)

                             NOT VOTING--10

     Begich
     Foxx
     Grijalva
     Kean
     Larson (CT)
     Lynch
     Neal
     Vargas
     Webster (FL)
     Wilson (SC)


                Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes 
remaining.

                              {time}  1808

  So the resolution was agreed to.
  The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________

