[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 3 (Tuesday, January 7, 2025)]
[Senate]
[Page S37]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             119TH CONGRESS

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, now, on the 119th Congress, as the 
119th Congress begins, our Nation faces an uncertain future. Americans 
still see high prices every time they go to the store, when they go to 
the pharmacy, when they refill their tanks, and pay their cable and 
internet bills. We have done a lot of work over the last few years to 
slow inflation down, but the new majority must continue the work we 
have begun.
  Donald Trump and Republicans made a slew of very bold promises on the 
campaign trail to fix our country's big problems. In some of these 
promises, they say they will fight for working people despite decades 
of doing the opposite and proposing things that would hurt them. 
Democrats will hold Republicans' feet to the fire to ensure they are 
accountable to the American people. Promises to help working people 
sound nice, but they mean nothing without real results, and too many of 
Republicans' promises, like tax cuts for the very wealthy, will 
actually make things worse for working people.
  In the coming weeks, there will be one early sign that shows whether 
or not Republicans intend to keep their promises to fight for working 
people, and that is who they support through the nomination process. 
These nominees are going to be the faces of the new administration. 
They will be responsible for applying its policies. They will, in 
effect, be the ones responsible for following through, day-to-day, on 
the promises made on the campaign trail.
  So the American people want to know: Will the President-elect's 
nominees follow through on cutting costs for the American people, or 
will they return to cutting sweet deals for mega corporations and the 
wealthiest people in this country?
  Will the President-elect's nominees actually make communities safer, 
or will they protect the bottom line of special interests?
  Will they help their corporate contractors cozy up to foreign 
entities and oligarchs, all while undermining our national security?
  Will they spend time settling scores for President-elect Trump, or 
will they actually help keep America safer?
  Will the President-elect's nominees keep their promises to serve 
America, or are they just going to serve the swamp?
  We remember what happened during the first Trump administration. The 
swamp wasn't drained so much as doubled and tripled and more. Even 
during the last campaign, Donald Trump promised oil executives huge tax 
breaks if he won. That would be the opposite of the promises he made to 
the people.
  These are the kinds of things we need to know from the President-
elect's nominees. We need to be fair but thorough and give every 
nominee a chance to make their case while also subjecting them to some 
tough scrutiny. That is, after all, what any reasonable job application 
process demands, whether you are an average person applying for a job 
or somebody being nominated for a very important Cabinet position.
  So that is what we Democrats intend to do. That is what we will do. 
It is no different than what we intend to do on the legislative side. I 
will repeat what I said last week: Democrats are ready to work with 
anyone, regardless of party, to make life better for working people.
  Let me mention one example from last week. On January 1, because of 
what the Democratic Senate and President did, the $2,000 out-of-pocket 
cap that Democrats passed in the Inflation Reduction Act went into 
effect. Thanks to that policy, millions of Americans with Medicare Part 
D will save thousands of dollars each year on prescription drugs. If 
Republicans want to strengthen policies like these and help Americans 
save millions more on healthcare spending, Democrats are open to 
working together.
  But our promise to Republicans also comes with a warning. Democrats 
will not hesitate to fight back if Republicans use their new majorities 
to hurt working families of America.
  If Donald Trump and Republicans use their new majorities to push the 
same old GOP policies of tax cuts for billionaires, cuts to healthcare, 
cuts to Medicare and Social Security, trickle-down economics, Democrats 
will fight back.
  If Republicans use their new majority to push policies that make life 
even more expensive for families, we will stand opposed.
  If Republicans go after Social Security or Medicare or Medicaid in 
people's paychecks, they will have to go through us.
  The choice is now in the hands of our Republican colleagues. They are 
now in the majority. They now have the responsibility. We and the 
American people will be watching.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________

