[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 6 (Monday, January 13, 2025)]
[Senate]
[Pages S83-S85]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LEGISLATIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

              LAKEN RILEY ACT--MOTION TO PROCEED--Resumed

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under the previous order, the 
Senate will resume consideration of the motion to proceed to S. 5, 
which the clerk will report.
  The assistant bill clerk read as follows:

       Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 1, S. 5, to require the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security to take into custody aliens 
     who have been charged in the United States with theft, and 
     for other purposes.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Democratic leader is 
recognized.


                              Nominations

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, this week, the American people will see 
for the first time what kind of Trump administration they are going to 
get in the coming years: one that will fight for working people or one 
that will fight for the swamp?
  Over the next 4 days, over a dozen of the President-elect's nominees 
will testify in committee and make their case to the country. These 
hearings, in a very real way, are the opening salvo for holding the 
Trump administration accountable to the public.
  So, today, I want to talk a little bit about how Senate Democrats 
will approach these hearings to uphold our promise to stand up for 
America's working and middle class. These hearings will be the very 
first real opportunity to see the Trump administration's view on who 
they will fight for--working people or the special interests?
  Our approach will be this: We will use these hearings to show the 
contrast between Donald Trump's agenda of helping the special 
interests--especially the very wealthy--and the Democrats' agenda to 
fight for working Americans.

[[Page S84]]

  Nominees should expect tough, candid, but fair questioning. They 
should come prepared to be honest about everything--their backgrounds, 
their experiences, and their commitment to increasing opportunity for 
all Americans, not just those at the top. They will also be asked tough 
questions about where they stand on the President-elect's stated 
policies on things that will hurt the middle class, such as tariffs, 
tax cuts for the wealthy, and undermining policies that lower drug 
prices.
  If the President-elect's nominees demonstrate they are qualified and 
committed to lowering costs, increasing wages, and strengthening our 
security, Democrats will take that very seriously. But if the 
President-elect's nominees are going to push policies that make 
inflation worse and put more money in the pockets of special interests, 
or duck those important questions, they will be put on the record about 
their views for all the American people to see.
  That is why Democrats have insisted on regular order for the 
President-elect's nominees. A thorough nominations process ensures the 
American people know precisely who these nominees are and who they will 
fight for.
  Unfortunately, a troubling pattern emerged last week from some 
Republican chairs who seem eager to rush the nominations process 
without fully getting all the necessary documentation.
  Getting documents is not trivial busy work. These are financial 
disclosures, ethics agreements, and FBI background investigations.
  If these nominees have something to hide, these documents could show 
it. So it is important we don't rush to hearings without examining the 
record first.
  The more Senate Republicans try to rush the process without the 
proper documentation, the more Americans will ask themselves: What are 
Republicans and their nominees trying to hide?
  How can Americans trust, for example, that Donald Trump's Cabinet 
will be free from conflicts of interests if Republicans hold hearings 
before anyone is getting a chance to review financial disclosures?
  How can Americans trust that these nominees will serve the public 
interest if we don't first examine all their ethics agreements?
  How can Americans trust that Senate Republicans will do what is best 
for the American people if they are more focused on keeping Donald 
Trump happy than examining every nominee carefully?
  If these nominees will push policies that make Americans' lives 
worse, Americans deserve to know it, and we can determine that with a 
complete, thorough, and exhaustive nomination process.
  On Mr. Hegseth, tomorrow's hearing with Pete Hegseth is a good 
example of why a thorough and tough nominations process is so 
important.
  Mr. Hegseth is Donald Trump's pick to be Secretary of Defense--
arguably, the most important position in the entire Cabinet. If 
confirmed, Mr. Hegseth would oversee a workforce of over 3 million 
people and handle issues of life and death on a regular basis. His job 
will be to keep our troops safe and keep our country safe. If there is 
any Cabinet position that ought to have a steady and drama-free 
individual, it is certainly Secretary of Defense.

  Unfortunately, Mr. Hegseth's background is deeply troubling, to put 
it generously. We all have read reports about his radical views, his 
alleged excessive drinking, the allegations about sexual assault, and 
his failures in the financial stewardship of multiple organizations. 
These are such serious allegations for such an important job. So why 
would the Armed Services Committee wish to rush through these hearings, 
particularly when the documents are not available to all the members of 
the committee, including the FBI background check?
  Mr. Hegseth will have an opportunity to answer questions about these 
allegations and about his record as well as his views. He can expect 
his hearing to be tough but respectful, candid but fair.
  The stakes during tomorrow's hearing will be very high--not just for 
the nominee but for the entire country. It is not hard to imagine an 
emergency situation where the Secretary of Defense has to make quick 
and steady decisions about our military. Is someone with Pete Hegseth's 
alleged history really the kind of person we want at the helm in a 
very, very important situation--dangerous situation--like that? Is that 
really in the best interest of Americans' safety? That is something 
Senators should ask themselves during tomorrow's hearing, and, of 
course, they should ask Mr. Hegseth questions about it.
  When it comes to a job like Secretary of Defense, there can be zero 
question--zero--that the nominee is up for the job. Unfortunately, Mr. 
Hegseth's record leaves too many unanswered questions. Let's hope we 
get real answers and real documentation before anyone votes for Mr. 
Hegseth for Secretary of Defense.


                            Laken Riley Act

  Mr. President, on Laken Riley, today, the Senate will vote on the 
motion to proceed on the Laken Riley Act. The Senate invoked cloture on 
this bill last week with a strong bipartisan vote. As I said last week, 
Democrats want to have a robust debate where we can offer amendments 
and improve this bill.
  This issue is very important. Americans deserve for us to debate the 
issues seriously, including by considering amendments from the 
Democratic side. We are going to ask our Republican colleagues to allow 
for debate and votes on amendments. I hope my Republican colleagues 
will allow for it.


                               January 6

  Mr. President, finally, on the January 6 pardons--not finally; next 
to finally--Donald Trump has promised to spend the first hour of his 
Presidency pardoning the violent mob which stormed the Capitol and 
attacked our police officers on January 6.
  Instead of focusing on helping working families or lowering 
healthcare costs or making life better for the American people, Donald 
Trump's very first priority seems to be pardoning the January 6 
rioters.
  And yesterday, on FOX News Sunday, the Vice President-elect JD 
Vance--feeling the heat that these pardons are not very popular with 
the American people--said that while those who committed violence 
should not be pardoned, he implied that those who did not commit 
violence could deserve to be pardoned.
  The people who invaded the Capitol on January 6, whether they 
committed violence or not, should not be pardoned. They unlawfully 
broke into the Capitol to stop the peaceful transfer of power. What 
they did is a serious crime. There is no gray area here. There would be 
nothing more insulting to our democracy and to the memory of those who 
died in connection with that day than letting rioters walk free. We 
would be saying, in effect, that you could storm the Capitol, engage in 
violence against police officers or be part of a crowd that engaged in 
such violence, and try to overturn a free and fair election, and then 
walk away with no consequences--no consequences.
  Rioters who broke into the Capitol on January 6 to try and stop the 
peaceful transfer of power and subvert our democracy do not deserve a 
Presidential pardon. Whether they committed violence or not, no one who 
participated in one of the darkest, most shameful days in American 
history should be pardoned.


                     Tribute to Pina Frassineti Wax

  Mr. President, finally, on a Holocaust survivor on Long Island whom I 
met with this morning, one of my favorite things about serving as the 
senior Senator from New York is that I get a chance to travel around 
the State and meet so many exceptional New Yorkers.
  This morning, on Long Island, I had a chance to meet an especially 
exceptional New Yorker, a living legend, a 100-year-old woman named 
Pina Frassineti Wax, a Holocaust survivor and proud Long Island 
resident. She was sheltered by Catholic nuns in a convent for 2 years 
to keep the Germans from sending her to the concentration camps.
  And these days, there are so many Holocaust deniers, people who say 
it never existed or was ``exaggerated,'' and then there are so many 
more young people who know nothing about the history of the Holocaust, 
that those who survived it are very, very important to our history, to 
helping us understand what happened, to be a living witness to this 
awful, awful, awful

[[Page S85]]

genocide that occurred against the Jewish people.
  Ms. Wax is such a survivor. She combined her 100th birthday with 
constantly reminding people of the horrors of Nazi Germany and what was 
done to the Jewish people.
  So, this morning, it was my honor to present her with a flag flown 
over the Capitol, expressing the Senate's recognition of her 
extraordinary life.
  After enduring so much tragedy during one of the darkest chapters of 
human history, Pina has dedicated her life to teaching, loving, 
learning, and preserving the memory of the Holocaust.
  And even at 100 years old, she is showing no signs of slowing down. 
She is whip smart, as energetic as ever, and still going very, very 
strong. People like her give all of us hope that, in the end, 
compassion and courage will always endure over hatred and fear--always.
  Long Island is lucky to have her; New York is proud to call her one 
of our own; and the world is much better off because of her.
  I yield the floor.


                   Recognition of the Majority Leader

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The majority leader is recognized.


                            Laken Riley Act

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, by now, I think a lot of Americans know the 
story of Laken Riley, a 22-year-old nursing student at Augusta 
University in Georgia with her whole life ahead of her. Laken was 
murdered last February while out on a run at the Athens campus of the 
University of Georgia.
  Her killer was arrested the next day, and it quickly became clear 
that he should never have had the opportunity to get near Laken Riley 
because he should never have been in the country in the first place. 
Laken's killer had entered the country illegally, been released into 
the interior, and had subsequently been arrested in New York City and 
later issued a citation for shoplifting in Georgia a few short months 
before Laken's murder.
  After his New York City arrest, he was released before Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement could issue a detainer--a request that police 
hold an individual--so that he could be taken into immigration custody. 
So this individual, here in the United States illegally and 
subsequently involved in two crimes, was free on the University of 
Georgia campus last February when Laken Riley went running.
  It is already a problem that we are releasing huge numbers of 
individuals here illegally into the interior of the country. It is 
unthinkable that an individual like Laken's killer would be released 
back into society. Laken's killer should have been detained long before 
he had a chance to get near her last February.
  Shortly after Laken was killed, Senator Katie Britt, together with 
Senator Budd, introduced legislation that would require Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement to detain individuals charged with theft, burglary, 
or shoplifting. It is a commonsense measure that should be an 
unquestioned ``yes'' for every Senator, and I am very pleased that the 
Senate is finally taking up this bill after Democrats blocked a vote on 
it last year.
  The fact that 33 Democratic Senators voted in favor of moving to the 
bill on Thursday was an encouraging sign that at least some Democrats 
might be serious about wanting to work with Republicans to address 
border and immigration security, and I hope that proves to be true. It 
would be incredibly disappointing if Democrats move to the bill simply 
to attempt to load it down with poison pills or unrelated measures.
  This is not--I emphasize ``not''--a comprehensive immigration bill. 
It is an attempt to right one wrong: the fact that individuals already 
here illegally who have been charged with various property crimes are 
not required to be detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. It 
is an attempt to ensure that no other family will have to suffer the 
pain suffered by Laken Riley's. So I hope that Democrats will work with 
us in a serious fashion to actually pass this legislation.
  After 4 years of chaos at our southern border under President Biden, 
there is a lot of work to be done on both the immigration and border 
security fronts. The kind of unchecked illegal immigration that we have 
experienced at our southern border under President Biden serves as an 
invitation to terrorists, criminals, and other dangerous individuals to 
enter our country.
  Currently, Senate Republicans are working on a major package that 
will include substantial funding for a variety of border and 
immigration security needs, including increasing the number of 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers and Border Patrol agents, 
increasing detention space, and providing the barriers and technology 
that we need to secure the border. I look forward to taking up that 
package.
  In the meantime, however, we have a bill before us today that will 
address one problem in current immigration law and, perhaps, prevent 
other families from suffering the pain that Laken Riley's has suffered. 
Let's get it done.

                          ____________________

