[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 11 (Monday, January 20, 2025)]
[Daily Digest]
[Pages D54-D56]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                                           Monday, January 20, 2025

[[Page D54]]

                              Daily Digest


HIGHLIGHTS

      The House and Senate met for the Inauguration of President Donald 
      J. Trump, and Vice President J.D. Vance.
      Senate passed S. 5, Laken Riley Act, as amended.
      Senate confirmed the nomination of Marco Rubio, of Florida, to be 
      Secretary of State.


                                 Senate


Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S245-S259
Measures Introduced: Two bills were introduced, as follows: S. 152-153 
                                                              Page S252
Measures Passed:
  Laken Riley Act: By 64 yeas to 35 nays (Vote No. 7), Senate passed S. 
5, to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to take into custody 
aliens who have been charged in the United States with theft, after 
taking action on the following amendment proposed thereto: 
                                                         Pages S246-251
Adopted:
  By 75 yeas to 24 nays (Vote No. 6), Thune (for Ernst/Grassley) 
Amendment No. 8, to include crimes resulting in death or serious bodily 
injury to the list of offenses that, if committed by an inadmissible 
alien, require mandatory detention.
Page S250
Measures Considered:
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act--Cloture: Senate began 
consideration of the motion to proceed to consideration of S. 6, to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to prohibit a health care 
practitioner from failing to exercise the proper degree of care in the 
case of a child who survives an abortion or attempted abortion. 
                                                              Page S258
  A motion was entered to close further debate on the motion to proceed 
to consideration of the bill, and, in accordance with the provisions of 
Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a vote on cloture will 
occur on Wednesday, January 22, 2025.
Page S258
  A unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing for further 
consideration of the motion to proceed to consideration of the bill at 
approximately 11 a.m., on Tuesday, January 21, 2025.
Page S258
Letters of Resignation--Agreement: A unanimous-consent agreement was 
reached providing that the letters from Senator Rubio regarding his 
resignation from the Senate be printed in the Record.
  Page S258
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the following nomination:
  By a unanimous vote of 99 yeas (Vote No. EX. 8), Marco Rubio, of 
Florida, to be Secretary of State.
Pages S251-252
Nominations Received: Senate received the following nominations:
  Scott Bessent, of South Carolina, to be Secretary of the Treasury.
  Keith Bass, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense.
  Pamela Bondi, of Florida, to be Attorney General.
  Jayanta Bhattacharya, of California, to be Director of the National 
Institutes of Health.
  Douglas Burgum, of North Dakota, to be Secretary of the Interior.
  James Bishop, of North Carolina, to be Deputy Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget.
  Lori Chavez-DeRemer, of Oregon, to be Secretary of Labor.
  Frank Bisignano, of New Jersey, to be Commissioner of Social 
Security.
  Douglas Collins, of Georgia, to be Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
  Todd Blanche, of Florida, to be Deputy Attorney General.
  Sean Duffy, of Wisconsin, to be Secretary of Transportation.

[[Page D55]]


  Adam Boehler, of Tennessee, to be Special Presidential Envoy for 
Hostage Affairs.
  Peter Hegseth, of Tennessee, to be Secretary of Defense.
  Samuel Brown, of Nevada, to be Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
for Memorial Affairs.
  Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., of California, to be Secretary of Health and 
Human Services.
  Walter Clayton, of New York, to be United States Attorney for the 
Southern District of New York for the term of four years.
  Howard Lutnick, of New York, to be Secretary of Commerce.
  Elbridge Colby, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of 
Defense for Policy.
  Linda McMahon, of Connecticut, to be Secretary of Education.
  Monica Crowley, of New York, to be Chief of Protocol, and to have the 
rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service.
  Kristi Noem, of South Dakota, to be Secretary of Homeland Security.
  Harmeet Dhillon, of California, to be an Assistant Attorney General.
  Brooke Rollins, of Texas, to be Secretary of Agriculture.
  Daniel Driscoll, of North Carolina, to be Secretary of the Army.
  Marco Rubio, of Florida, to be Secretary of State.
  Michael Duffy, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment.
  Eric Turner, of Texas, to be Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development.
  Troy Edgar, of California, to be Deputy Secretary of Homeland 
Security.
  Christopher Wright, of Colorado, to be Secretary of Energy.
  Michael Faulkender, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of the 
Treasury.
  Tulsi Gabbard, of Hawaii, to be Director of National Intelligence.
  Stephen Feinberg, of New York, to be Deputy Secretary of Defense.
  Jamieson Greer, of Maryland, to be United States Trade 
Representative, with the rank of Ambassador.
  David Fink, of New Hampshire, to be Administrator of the Federal 
Railroad Administration.
  Kelly Loeffler, of Georgia, to be Administrator of the Small Business 
Administration.
  Paul Atkins, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 5, 
2026.
  John Ratcliffe, of Texas, to be Director of the Central Intelligence 
Agency.
  Dario Gil, of New York, to be Under Secretary for Science, Department 
of Energy.
  Elise Stefanik, of New York, to be the Representative of the United 
States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of 
Ambassador, and the Representative of the United States of America in 
the Security Council of the United Nations.
  Preston Griffith, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Energy.
  Elise Stefanik, of New York, to be Representative of the United 
States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United 
Nations during her tenure of service as Representative of the United 
States of America to the United Nations.
  Jacob Helberg, of Florida, to be an Under Secretary of State 
(Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment).
  Russell Vought, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget.
  Dudley Hoskins, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of 
Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs.
  Lee Zeldin, of New York, to be Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency.
  Jared Isaacman, of Pennsylvania, to be Administrator of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration.
  Scott Kupor, of California, to be Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management for a term of four years.
  Christopher Landau, of Maryland, to be Deputy Secretary of State.
  Luke Lindberg, of South Dakota, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture 
for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs.
  William Long, of Missouri, to be Commissioner of Internal Revenue for 
the remainder of the term expiring November 12, 2027.
  Martin Makary, of Virginia, to be Commissioner of Food and Drugs, 
Department of Health and Human Services.
  Mark Meador, of Virginia, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the 
term of seven years from September 26, 2024.
  Troy Meink, of Virginia, to be Secretary of the Air Force.
  Emil Michael, of Florida, to be Under Secretary of Defense for 
Research and Engineering.
  Janette Nesheiwat, of New York, to be Medical Director in the Regular 
Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to qualifications therefor 
as provided by law and regulations, and to be Surgeon General of the 
Public Health Service for a term of four years.
  James O'Neill, of California, to be Deputy Secretary of Health and 
Human Services.
  Mehmet Oz, of Pennsylvania, to be Administrator of the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services.

[[Page D56]]


  Kashyap Patel, of Nevada, to be Director of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for a term of ten years.
  John Phelan, of Florida, to be Secretary of the Navy.
  Aaron Reitz, of Texas, to be an Assistant Attorney General vice 
Hampton Y. Dellinger.
  Michael Rigas, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of State for 
Management and Resources.
  Dean Sauer, of Missouri, to be Solicitor General of the United 
States.
  Rodney Scott, of Oklahoma, to be Commissioner of U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security.
  Abigail Slater, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant 
Attorney General.
  Keith Sonderling, of Florida, to be Deputy Secretary of Labor.
  Stephen Vaden, of Tennessee, to be Deputy Secretary of Agriculture.
  David Weldon, of Florida, to be Director of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention.
  Brandon Williams, of New York, to be Under Secretary for Nuclear 
Security.
Pages S258-259
Executive Reports of Committees:
  Page S252
Additional Cosponsors:
  Page S252
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
  Page S252
Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today. (Total--8) 
                                                       Pages S250, S252
Adjournment: Senate convened at 4:30 p.m. and adjourned at 6:53 p.m., 
until 11 a.m. on Tuesday, January 21, 2025. (For Senate's program, see 
the remarks of the Majority Leader in today's Record on page S258.)

