[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 8 (Wednesday, January 15, 2025)]
[House]
[Pages H175-H178]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               PROTECTING THE RIGHTS AND SAFETY OF WOMEN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2025, the gentleman from Utah (Mr. Moore) is recognized for 
60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.


                             General Leave

  Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous material on the topic of this Special 
Order.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Utah?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, House Republicans are doubling down on our commitment to 
supporting and protecting the rights and safety of women and girls 
across the country. We are doing this by championing bills that fight 
back against unfair competition in sports and dangerous immigration 
policies.
  Yesterday, we passed Congressman Steube's Protection of Women and 
Girls in Sports Act, which is now on its way to the Senate. This 
legislation prevents biological males from competing in school athletic 
programs for women and girls by requiring that sex in athletic 
competition be determined by genetics at birth.

[[Page H176]]

  House Republicans are also supporting Congresswoman Mace's Violence 
Against Women By Illegal Aliens Act, which amends the Immigration and 
Nationality Act to make illegal immigrants inadmissible and deportable 
from the United States if they are convicted of or have admitted to 
committing sex offense or domestic violence.
  I am grateful to my colleagues for joining me this evening to discuss 
these important measures and our commitment to delivering for our 
daughters, sisters, nieces, and granddaughters.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Moran).
  Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today before you to reaffirm the House 
Republicans' efforts to empower and protect American women and girls. 
By passing legislation such as Congressman Greg Steube's Protection of 
Women and Girls in Sports Act, Congressman  Mike Collins' Laken Riley 
Act, and Congresswoman Nancy Mace's Preventing Violence Against Women 
by Illegal Aliens Act, we address significant lapses in our justice, 
legal, and educational systems, and we push back against a radical left 
agenda that leaves our society in moral tatters.
  Individually, these bills tackle critical issues, and collectively 
they create a safer, healthier, and more prosperous Nation for our 
women and girls. That is really important to me and should be to every 
American. However, as a father of two girls, specifically, I want my 
girls to have the opportunity to thrive in a society that gives 
equality to both men and women, that nurtures their growth, and 
protects their well-being. I do not want to be part of a society that 
places them at greater risk and reduces their opportunities in this 
country.
  Our daughters should not be forced to adhere to radical policies that 
undermine truth, safety, and reality, policies that have been pushed 
for the last 4 years by the Biden-Harris administration. We as a 
Republican Conference will not sit idly by on this issue, nor have we, 
as evidenced by the bills that I referenced today.
  Let me personally thank, again, Congressman Steube, Congressman 
Collins, and Congresswoman Mace for their dedication to protecting my 
two daughters and every daughter, mother, and sister across this 
Nation.

                              {time}  1730

  Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues for being 
willing to carve out time in their schedules to come down and share 
this message.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from North Dakota (Mrs. 
Fedorchak).
  Mrs. FEDORCHAK. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to represent all North 
Dakotans in the United States House of Representatives. This is my 
first speech on the House floor, and I want to take this opportunity to 
tell you a little bit about our State and what I hope to accomplish 
during the 119th Congress.
  North Dakotans are hardworking, independent, resourceful people who 
are dedicated to their faith, families, and communities. From 
Abercrombie to Zap, and every place in between, North Dakotans show up 
every day, regardless of rain, snow, or subzero temperatures. That is 
what I will do here.
  Our biggest industries in North Dakota are agriculture and energy. We 
are very proud of those, but we have so many other innovative things 
taking place: autonomous systems, artificial intelligence, defense 
technology, and more.
  This is why I sought a seat on the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
one of the best and most powerful committees on Capitol Hill. From my 
seat there, I will help advance the interests of our State, 
particularly in energy.
  Before I became a Member of Congress, I served as a public service 
commissioner for 12 years. I regulated five multistate monopoly 
utilities, permitted $15 billion worth of new energy infrastructure, 
and advocated for market rules and policies to support reliable and 
affordable energy resources.
  I saw firsthand the challenges to our energy policy and the direct 
and dire consequences it has. North Dakotans, and Americans, too, have 
also seen the impacts of these policies and the prices they pay at the 
grocery store, at the gas pump, and to power their homes.
  American energy reliability, affordability, sustainability, and 
security are the weakest they have been in years. Take yesterday's 
action by the Biden administration to lock up millions of acres of oil, 
gas, and coal leases in North Dakota through the Bureau of Land 
Management's resource management plan for the State. This is absolutely 
the wrong direction.
  As demand for energy reaches record highs, we should be unleashing 
American energy production, not shutting it down. It is time to abandon 
the one-size energy strategy that stifles domestic energy production 
and jeopardizes hardworking Americans' jobs.
  I am eager to work with the Trump administration, Governor Burgum, 
and my colleagues in the House to invest in a true all-of-the-above 
energy strategy and regain American energy dominance. Doing so will 
help reduce America's debt, lower prices for hardworking families, 
reduce global emissions, and bolster our national security.
  I also rise today in support of H.R. 28, the Protection of Women and 
Girls in Sports Act of 2025. This legislation seeks to make sure women 
and girls have the opportunity to compete on a fair playing field by 
requiring schools to comply with Title IX recognition of a person's 
gender at birth.
  Competing in girls' sports as a kid gave me strength, taught me 
resilience, and helped me form lifelong friendships. My experience as a 
kid would have been completely different if I had been forced to 
compete against biological males.
  Let's let our kids be kids. Let's let our daughters dream big, train 
hard, and compete on a level playing field.
  H.R. 28 is a commonsense bill. It strengthens protections for women, 
and I was proud to vote for it. Men simply do not belong in women's 
sports, and House Republicans are leading the charge to ensure fairness 
for women and girls.
  Yet, our commitment to women and families doesn't just stop there. 
Last week, we also passed the Laken Riley Act, which will give 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement the tools it needs to hold illegal 
immigrants who commit theft and other crimes accountable.
  This is the Republican agenda in action. We are protecting women, 
supporting families, and making our communities safer. This is just the 
beginning of our work.
  Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, North Dakota, like Utah, definitely 
hits above its weight, and the gentlewoman from North Dakota's presence 
is key on all of these particular issues.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from Indiana (Mrs. Houchin), 
our Conference secretary.
  Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, yesterday, Republicans stood united to 
pass the Protection of Women and Girls in Sports Act of 2025, 
reaffirming a simple but critical truth: Men are men, and women are 
women. It is that simple.
  As the mother of two daughters who are athletes, I have seen 
firsthand the hard work and dedication it takes for girls to compete in 
sports. Sadly, we have witnessed biological men entering women's 
competitions, robbing female athletes of fair opportunities and, in 
some cases, even causing injuries.
  Under House Republican leadership, that ends now. This legislation, 
which I am proud to cosponsor, sends a clear message: Female athletes 
deserve fair competition, secure locker rooms, and a safe and level 
playing field.
  Thanks to House Republicans, the days of biological men competing in 
women's sports are over. This legislation is about restoring common 
sense. It is about standing up for objective truth.

  The American people have called for this national mandate supporting 
women and girls in their sports and spaces, and thanks to Republican 
leadership, we are delivering on that promise. I am proud to stand with 
Congressman Steube on the side of fairness, safety, integrity, and the 
protection of women's sports.
  Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. LaMalfa), who has been through the devastation that we 
are seeing there, and our hearts go out to those in California. His 
district has been hit by this several times, and I will say that 
hearing the stories and conversations he has from his district, it just 
puts it into perspective. This is tough stuff. He has been down this 
road before and has been a strong leader on communicating

[[Page H177]]

what we need to do to keep it from continuing to happen.
  Mr. LaMALFA. Mr. Speaker, California has had a lot of problems 
inflicted upon it, partly by nature and partly self-inflicted by 
governing.
  As we bring resources and aid to southern California and reflect here 
on these horrific events happening with the fire down there in the 
Pacific Palisades and surrounding communities, it is very sobering but 
also points out the need for leadership and competency in preparing for 
it. It is really basic stuff.
  The north part of the State has been through it many times, with the 
losses of communities. We all remember the Paradise fire. Eighty-five 
people lost their lives, and 90 percent of the town was consumed.
  We have to do better in the preparation ahead of time before fire 
season on how we treat the lands and have the apparatus ready, instead 
of complications due to contracts, for example, with the Forest Service 
not being ready to have the equipment that would be there in the 
forests, and on and on.
  I appreciate that, and we are going to do the best we can to move as 
quickly as possible for the folks in southern California and then 
ongoing to build up the infrastructure and the work that needs to be 
done.
  As tonight's topic has been, when we are talking about protecting our 
citizens and our border, California, as well, under the direction of 
Gavin Newsom, has become a haven for illegal immigration. The taxpayers 
are footing the bill for an ever-expanding list of unbelievable 
benefits that are being given to illegal immigrants.
  From healthcare to education, sex changes, homes, the whole works, 
California is pouring resources into supporting those here illegally 
while our own citizens, as we mentioned, are struggling with many 
things in burning communities, as well as the more day-to-day stuff: 
overcrowded schools, strained healthcare systems, and increasing public 
safety concerns with gangs, crime, and on and on.
  We have sanctuary policies statewide, not just in cities, like we see 
around the country. This is a statewide sanctuary policy that protects 
illegal immigrants from ICE being able to pick them up when it is found 
that we have illegals in this country that could be processed federally 
and, hopefully, deported.
  Cities across California are openly defying Federal immigration laws, 
creating safe havens for those who have broken the law. These sanctuary 
cities as well are not just a burden on our resources; they are a 
threat, as I said, to public safety. We have seen this firsthand, most 
recently in this country with the tragic loss and death of Laken Riley, 
and you will remember a few years ago in San Francisco on the wharf 
there, Kate Steinle was killed by a bullet from a gun that an illegal 
immigrant had found, taken, stolen, or whatever. Those lives are gone, 
and it is a tragedy for their families.

  What are we going to do to avenge them? What are we going to do to 
make it right? These two innocent women lost their lives due to these 
violent crimes committed by illegal immigrants who are protected by 
these sanctuary policies.
  Tomorrow, hopefully, we will take up the Preventing Violence Against 
Women by Illegal Aliens Act, introduced by my colleague Nancy Mace from 
South Carolina. This crucial bill aims to close the loopholes that 
would allow violent offenders to slip through the cracks and continue 
to pose a threat to our country.
  It is high time we prioritize the safety and security of our citizens 
and the needs of our people, particularly women, who would be and have 
been the victims of these violent crimes.
  In my home State, California's approach is not sustainable. We are 
overcrowded and overrun with crime, gangs, and broken services, as I 
mentioned.
  Governor Newsom's policies are draining our resources and 
compromising public safety. His priorities are illegal aliens and all 
sorts of benefits for them, which we keep seeing on and on, again and 
again, as the State is running a deficit and spending on things like 
high-speed rail instead of helping on fire safety and having our water 
supply renewed for all those good reasons.
  Instead of prioritizing the well-being of California, the State is 
offering a free pass again and again to those coming into the country 
illegally. We have become the State that is the magnet for all of it, 
away from the other States.
  As we have said, it is high time to put a stop to this. Let's stand 
behind this legislation, the Preventing Violence Against Women by 
Illegal Aliens Act, and ensure that we are doing everything possible to 
protect our cities and the people who live within them, especially the 
women, as we think of Laken Riley, Kate Steinle, and too many others 
who have already paid the ultimate price.
  We need to focus entirely on the needs of folks like that, and 
hopefully, there will be some sense of closure or satisfaction for 
their families to see that at least we have done the right thing 
ultimately.
  With President Trump coming in, in just a few short days, I think we 
can finally get the momentum to do what we need to do with enforcing 
our border and allowing legal immigration, allowing people who we 
invite into the country.
  We are still for immigration, just follow our rules, follow our laws, 
and pass a few reasonable tests in order to be part of the American 
Dream. We extend that. That is what the country was based on for so 
many years, and it has completely gone awry in the last 50.
  Why does the Biden administration and my colleagues on the other side 
believe that this is good policy and keep getting away with it 
politically? Why is that seen as a good thing?
  I think folks have really had their fill of it now because they are 
seeing it really showing up in their pocketbooks and their ability to 
afford a home, have a job, and not continue to get further and further 
behind, as this country has always aspired to have the next generation 
be just a little bit better off than the previous one.

                              {time}  1745

  Mr. Speaker, that is not happening now. You can lay policies such as 
this right at the feet of our poorest border, as well as bad energy 
policies and other things causing inflation.
  With that, this is a very important thing we are working on this 
week, so we can assure the women of this country that we are behind 
them. We do have their backs on this violence, as well as the previous 
legislation mentioned, on women and girls in sports having a safe place 
to play and enjoy and excel without men somehow interfering on those 
fields, in those locker rooms.
  It is common sense. I can't believe we are here at this point. We are 
battling back here in this Congress with Republican leadership doing 
so.
  I appreciate Mr. Moore leading us here tonight, and I thank him for 
the time.
  Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from 
California. Again, we continue to pray that the best outcomes possible 
will continue to happen for California.
  Mr. Speaker, my next speaker from Montana (Mr. Downing) is a brand-
new Member and our concluding speaker here today. We consider 
ourselves, as a Utahn and Montanan, the greatest portion of the 
country, wouldn't you say, out West? We have a lot to prove that.
  The gentleman is a new Member but a very experienced, thoughtful, and 
strong Member that I look forward to working with. I thank him for 
being here.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Montana (Mr. Downing).
  Mr. DOWNING. Mr. Speaker, House Republicans have hit the ground 
running in the 119th Congress.
  Last week, we considered bills to hold accountable illegal aliens who 
break our laws and defend U.S. national sovereignty against a rogue 
international judicial body.
  This week is about protecting the women in all of our lives. I am a 
father to two wonderful daughters and a husband to my amazing wife, 
Heather. Never in a million years did I think that one day I would need 
to take the floor of the United States House of Representatives to 
defend their right to compete in athletic competitions without unfair 
competition from biological males or to denounce acts of violence 
perpetrated against them as

[[Page H178]]

wrong and deserving of punishment, but here I stand.
  Just yesterday, we passed H.R. 28, the Protection of Women and Girls 
in Sports Act. This bill ensures fair competition in women and girls' 
sports by rightfully defining gender based on reproductive biology and 
genetics and prohibiting males identifying as women from competing in 
federally funded sporting competitions.
  I was proud to add my support to this critical legislation, and I 
look forward to voting for a second bill, the Preventing Violence 
Against Women by Illegal Aliens Act, on the House floor tomorrow.
  H.R. 30 will ensure that illegal aliens who have been convicted of or 
admit to committing sex offenses or domestic violence can be deported 
by closing a loophole in existing law.
  Needless to say, the fact that we need to consider legislation of 
this kind is ludicrous. Simple truths that we once took for granted are 
under assault from ideological corners of our Nation that do not 
represent the vast majority of Americans and certainly not the vast 
majority of Montanans.
  When America overwhelmingly elected Donald Trump to be our next 
President, they gave Republicans a clear mandate to reverse course on 
the progressive policies threatening the safety and well-being of our 
daughters, nieces, granddaughters, and sisters. This week Democrats 
have a chance to show us whose side they are on. I know where I stand.
  Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Montana. I 
appreciate all that we have been able to enact thus far.
  Mr. Speaker, I close tonight and just thank my colleagues for being 
here tonight and for taking the time to speak on this important issue.
  As I mentioned earlier, House Republicans are committed to advancing 
legislation that supports our women and girls and gives them a fair 
chance to excel in their athletic endeavors.
  The Protection of Women and Girls in Sports Act ensures biological 
males are unable to compete in female-designated sports, giving women 
and girls the opportunity to compete on a fair playing field by 
requiring schools to comply with the Title IX recognition of a person's 
genetics at birth. This bill withholds Federal funding from schools 
that facilitate athletic programs where biological men compete against 
biological women.
  To be clear, this is not about disrespecting anyone. Everyone is 
worthy of dignity and respect. However, protecting women and girls from 
feeling uncomfortable in their locker rooms, sustaining major sports 
injuries because of unfair competition, or simply losing out on well-
deserved athletic accolades because they are genetically unable to beat 
a male is not purely political effort. It is simply what is right.
  This is a line that we must draw, and we know that Americans agree 
with this.
  I have joked before about a couple of things. I have four boys. I 
wasn't blessed with a girl. We lament it every day. I do love those 
boys, though. I push them hard in sports.
  I reflect on this about my nieces, and they are dynamite athletes 
and, candidly, can probably beat me in most of their assigned sports, 
such as tennis and soccer, across the board. That is what motivates me 
on this.
  The amount of confidence that you get from sports is key. The ability 
to compete and play and enjoy this, above anything else, with all of 
the extra pressures that are placed on kids nowadays with social media 
pressure and everything, the concepts of teamwork that you learn, 
achieving something, getting better at something, and having the 
ability to say that you have a shot to win that competition cannot be 
beaten into my nieces.
  They have to be able to say, with a level playing field, they can go 
win this, not because it is important to win that gold ribbon or this 
or that or win the track meet. It is because they need to know that the 
effort they put in can achieve something.

  That is going to translate into a career, into anything that they get 
involved with where they have to accomplish something. It is not just 
about sports. It is a psychological element that we need to make sure 
exists.
  Sports is such a key, important aspect for growth in people, and that 
is what we are trying to do here. Let's not make this a political 
endeavor. At least you won't ever get that from me and my office and 
the way we communicate about this.
  Additionally, House Republicans this week are standing up for women's 
safety by bringing to the floor Congresswoman Mace's Preventing 
Violence Against Women by Illegal Aliens Act to uphold the U.S. border 
laws and make illegal immigrants who have been convicted of or admitted 
to sex offenses or domestic violence inadmissible and deportable.
  This bill is about closing critical gaps in our crimes. Last year, 
over 20,000 illegal immigrants were not detained for sexual assault. As 
of July, over 650,000 with criminal histories were on the ICE non-
detained docket. This must change. This bill takes action to get these 
violent offenders off of our streets and make our communities safe 
again.
  I am grateful for the work my Republican colleagues have done to push 
these bills forward. We are wasting no time to get some of the sensible 
legislation that we were able to get passed and went nowhere in the 
Senate in the last Congress, and we want to give the Senate an 
opportunity to vote on this again.
  I sincerely believe there will be Democrats who see the sensible 
approach with this. We are also seeing it with the bill we passed last 
week, the Laken Riley Act.
  Again, I thank Congressman Steube and Congresswoman Mace for their 
leadership on these critical issues. To my colleagues, again, I 
appreciate their willingness to spend some time down here today.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________

