[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 5 (Thursday, January 9, 2025)]
[House]
[Pages H87-H91]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. YAKYM:
       H.R. 241. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for access standards with respect to the provision by 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs of hospital care, medical 
     services, or extended care services that are applicable to 
     certain veterans with mental disorders; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SESSIONS:
       H.R. 242. A bill to require annual surveys of Federal 
     employee managers, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for himself and Mr. 
             Cohen):
       H.R. 243. A bill to prohibit United States recognition of 
     Bidzina Ivanishvili or any Government of Georgia that is led 
     by Bidzina Ivanishvili, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. STEUBE:
       H.R. 244. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide eligibility for TRICARE Select to veterans with 
     service-connected disabilities, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. FOXX (for herself, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Moolenaar, 
             Mr. Green of Tennessee, and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 245. A bill to require any applicant for a Federal 
     grant to submit a certification that such applicant is not in 
     violation of section 274(a) of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. UNDERWOOD (for herself and Mr. Casten):
       H.R. 246. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to increase the limitation on the amount individuals can 
     deduct for certain State and local taxes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Ms. UNDERWOOD (for herself, Ms. Castor of Florida, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Grijalva, Ms.

[[Page H88]]

             Pettersen, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Hoyer, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Titus, Mr. Morelle, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Moore 
             of Wisconsin, Ms. Stevens, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Hoyle of 
             Oregon, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Budzinski, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Horsford, and Mr. Amo):
       H.R. 247. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand eligibility for the refundable credit for coverage 
     under a qualified health plan; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. UNDERWOOD (for herself and Mr. Van Drew):
       H.R. 248. A bill to require Amtrak to install baby changing 
     tables in bathrooms on passenger rail cars; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Ms. Pou, Mr. Norcross, Mr. 
             Van Drew, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. 
             Gottheimer, Mr. Kean, Mr. Menendez, Mrs. McIver, Ms. 
             Sherrill, and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 249. A bill to redesignate certain facilities at 
     Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park in honor of 
     Congressman Bill Pascrell, Jr; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. HOULAHAN (for herself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mrs. 
             McClain, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Meuser, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Joyce of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Kiggans of 
             Virginia, Mr. Cleaver, Ms. Malliotakis, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Mr. Khanna, Mr. Evans of Pennsylvania, Ms. Dean of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Titus, Mr. Lawler, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Lee of Florida, and Mrs. Bice):
       H.R. 250. A bill to direct the Joint Committee on the 
     Library to procure a statue of Benjamin Franklin for 
     placement in the Capitol; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. CALVERT (for himself and Mr. McClintock):
       H.R. 251. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to make mandatory and permanent requirements relating to 
     use of an electronic employment eligibility verification 
     system, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, and Education and Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CALVERT:
       H.R. 252. A bill to amend title 46, United States Code, to 
     prohibit certain contracts for port operations and 
     management, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, Mr. 
             Mills, and Mr. Krishnamoorthi):
       H.R. 253. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     restrict trading and ownership of certain financial 
     instruments by Members of Congress and their spouses and 
     dependents, and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ALLEN:
       H.R. 254. A bill to prohibit the Director of the National 
     Science Foundation from awarding grants and other forms of 
     assistance to Chinese communist military companies and their 
     affiliates, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. ARRINGTON:
       H.R. 255. A bill to name the Department of Veterans Affairs 
     community-based outpatient clinic in Lubbock, Texas, as the 
     ``General Bernie Mittemeyer VA Clinic''; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. BICE (for herself, Mr. Baird, Mr. Valadao, Mr. 
             Johnson of South Dakota, Mr. Owens, Mr. Mann, Mr. 
             Rutherford, and Mr. Donalds):
       H.R. 256. A bill to prohibit the sale of petroleum products 
     from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to certain entities, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. BICE:
       H.R. 257. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to prohibit the Securities and Exchange Commission from 
     requiring an issuer to make climate-related disclosures that 
     are not material to investors, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. BICE:
       H.R. 258. A bill to cancel certain proposed changes to loan 
     level price adjustments by the Federal National Mortgage 
     Association and credit fees charged by the Federal Home Loan 
     Mortgage Corporation; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BIGGS of Arizona (for himself, Mr. Ogles, and 
             Mr. Harris of Maryland):
       H.R. 259. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to prohibit certain advertising with respect to the 
     Immigration Detention Ombudsman, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BURCHETT (for himself, Ms. Greene of Georgia, 
             Ms. Mace, Mr. Barrett, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Biggs 
             of Arizona, Mrs. Luna, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Buchanan, 
             Mr. McCaul, Ms. De La Cruz, Ms. Boebert, Mr. Mills, 
             Ms. Tenney, and Mr. Norman):
       H.R. 260. A bill to require a strategy to oppose financial 
     or material support by foreign countries and nongovernmental 
     organizations to the Taliban, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Dunn of 
             Florida, Mrs. Cammack, Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia, Mr. 
             Fry, and Mr. Pfluger):
       H.R. 261. A bill to amend the National Marine Sanctuaries 
     Act to prohibit requiring an authorization for the 
     installation, continued presence, operation, maintenance, 
     repair, or recovery of undersea fiber optic cables in a 
     national marine sanctuary if such activities have previously 
     been authorized by a Federal or State agency; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself and Ms. Sewell):
       H.R. 262. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a special rule for certain casualty losses of 
     uncut timber; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CISCOMANI (for himself, Mrs. Kiggans of 
             Virginia, Mr. Lawler, and Mrs. Miller-Meeks):
       H.R. 263. A bill to prohibit the intentional hindering of 
     immigration, border, and customs controls, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COHEN:
       H.R. 264. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     require Amtrak to make traditional dining and an alternative, 
     more affordable food and beverage service available to 
     passengers on overnight routes of Amtrak, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. COHEN:
       H.R. 265. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     require Amtrak to submit to Congress an annual report with 
     respect to the implementation of certain recommendations of 
     the Amtrak Food and Beverage Working Group for improving the 
     food and beverage service of Amtrak, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON:
       H.R. 266. A bill to modify the Federal TRIO programs; to 
     the Committee on Education and Workforce.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON:
       H.R. 267. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for hospital and insurer price transparency; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DIAZ-BALART (for himself, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Gimenez, Ms. Salazar, 
             and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 268. A bill to increase the maximum reward amount for 
     information leading to the arrest and conviction of Nicolas 
     Maduro Moros to $100,000,000, which shall be paid out by the 
     Federal Government from all assets being withheld from 
     Nicolas Maduro Moros, officials of the Maduro regime and 
     their co-conspirators; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. DUNN of Florida (for himself, Mr. Turner of 
             Ohio, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. McCormick, Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. 
             Guthrie, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. 
             Norcross, and Mr. Lawler):
       H.R. 269. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to 
     Jens Stoltenberg, in recognition of his contributions to the 
     security, unity, and defense of the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. DUNN of Florida:
       H.R. 270. A bill to authorize the waiver of costs of 
     activities relating to evacuation of United States citizens 
     when their lives are endangered by war or acts of terrorism; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mrs. FISCHBACH (for herself, Mrs. Houchin, Ms. 
             Tenney, Mr. Feenstra, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, Mr. Ezell, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Jackson of 
             Texas, Mrs. Harshbarger, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. 
             Ellzey, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Williams of Texas, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Mr. Moran, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Webster of Florida, Ms. Van Duyne, Mr. Kustoff, Mr. 
             Finstad, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Bost, Mr. 
             Hudson, Mr. Grothman, Mr. McCormick, Mr. Fitzgerald, 
             Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Womack, Mr. 
             Collins, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Green of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Mann, Mrs. Bice, Mr. Taylor, Mr. 
             Alford, Mr. Guest, Mr. Onder, Mr. Joyce of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Babin, and Mr. Latta):
       H.R. 271. A bill to provide for a moratorium on Federal 
     funding to Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. FISCHBACH (for herself, Ms. Tenney, Mr. 
             Feenstra, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
             Ezell, Mr. Stauber, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Jackson of 
             Texas, Mrs. Harshbarger, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. 
             Ellzey, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Williams of Texas, Mr. 
             Kelly of

[[Page H89]]

             Pennsylvania, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Kustoff, 
             Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Bost, Mr. Sessions, Mr. 
             Hudson, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Collins, Mr. Finstad, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, 
             Mr. Mann, Mr. Taylor, Mrs. Bice, Mr. Moran, Mr. 
             Guest, Mr. Onder, Mr. Babin, and Mr. Latta):
       H.R. 272. A bill to prohibit Federal funding to entities 
     that do not certify the entities will not perform, or provide 
     any funding to any other entity that performs, an abortion; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GILL of Texas (for himself, Ms. Mace, Mr. Ogles, 
             Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Burlison, Mr. Nehls, Mr. 
             Cloud, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Ms. Malliotakis, Ms. 
             Tenney, Mr. Wied, Mr. Moore of West Virginia, Ms. 
             Boebert, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Davidson, Mr. Crane, Mr. 
             Crenshaw, Mr. Brecheen, Mr. Donalds, Mr. Self, Mr. 
             Hudson, Mrs. Houchin, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. 
             Mills, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Yakym, Mr. Rulli, Mr. Biggs of 
             Arizona, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Lawler, Mr. Messmer, Mr. 
             Downing, Mr. McGuire, Mr. Pfluger, Mr. Perry, Mr. 
             Harris of Maryland, Ms. Hageman, Mr. Fry, Mr. Babin, 
             Ms. Van Duyne, Mr. Balderson, Mr. Hern of Oklahoma, 
             Mr. Begich, Mr. Harris of North Carolina, Mr. Evans 
             of Colorado, Mr. Harrigan, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Dunn of 
             Florida, Mr. Finstad, Mr. Norman, Mr. Smith of 
             Missouri, Mr. Langworthy, Mr. Ellzey, Mr. Aderholt, 
             Mr. Barrett, Mr. Gooden, Mr. Rogers of Kentucky, Mr. 
             Bacon, Mr. Hamadeh of Arizona, Mr. Moran, Mr. Hunt, 
             Mr. Guest, Mr. Bean of Florida, Ms. Foxx, Ms. Greene 
             of Georgia, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, 
             Mr. Bost, Mr. Zinke, Mr. Collins, Mr. Estes, Mr. 
             Alford, Mr. Clyde, Mrs. Luna, Mr. Bergman, Mr. 
             Schmidt, Mr. Tony Gonzales of Texas, Mr. Fleischmann, 
             Mr. Ciscomani, Mrs. Fischbach, Mr. McCaul, Mr. 
             Moolenaar, Mr. Moore of Utah, Mr. Carter of Georgia, 
             and Mr. McDowell):
       H.R. 273. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to continue to implement the Migrant Protection 
     Protocols, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Biggs of 
             Arizona, Mr. Zinke, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Ogles, Mr. Collins, Mr. Cloud, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Owens, 
             Mrs. Fischbach, and Mr. Brecheen):
       H.R. 274. A bill to provide for the sunset of rules upheld 
     based on Chevron deference; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and Rules, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. GREENE of Georgia (for herself, Mr. Green of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. Crane, Mr. 
             Guest, and Mr. Brecheen):
       H.R. 275. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to publish on a monthly basis the number of special 
     interest aliens encountered attempting to unlawfully enter 
     the United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Ms. GREENE of Georgia (for herself, Mrs. Miller of 
             Illinois, Mr. Moore of Alabama, Ms. Tenney, Mr. 
             Collins, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Ogles, Mr. Lawler, 
             Mr. Haridopolos, Mr. Steube, Mr. Gill of Texas, Mr. 
             Burlison, Mr. Babin, Mr. Rulli, and Mr. Nehls):
       H.R. 276. A bill to rename the Gulf of Mexico as the ``Gulf 
     of America''; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. GREENE of Georgia (for herself and Mr. Massie):
       H.R. 277. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide protections for nonviolent political protesters, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 278. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     streamline siting processes for telecommunications service 
     facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 279. A bill to direct the United States Postal Service 
     to designate a single, unique ZIP Code for Fairlawn, 
     Virginia, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. HAGEMAN (for herself, Mr. Meuser, and Mrs. 
             Miller of West Virginia):
       H.R. 280. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior 
     to take certain actions with respect to certain qualified 
     coal applications, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. HAGEMAN (for herself, Mr. Zinke, Mr. Fulcher, 
             Mr. Stauber, and Mr. Downing):
       H.R. 281. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to 
     reissue a final rule relating to removing the Greater 
     Yellowstone Ecosystem population of grizzly bears from the 
     Federal list of endangered and threatened wildlife, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. JACKSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. Moran, Mr. 
             Crenshaw, Mr. Self, Mr. Fallon, Mr. Gooden, Mr. 
             Ellzey, Mr. Luttrell, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Pfluger, Mr. 
             Goldman of Texas, Mr. Weber of Texas, Ms. De La Cruz, 
             Mr. Sessions, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. 
             Nehls, Ms. Van Duyne, Mr. Williams of Texas, Mr. 
             Cloud, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Carter of Texas, and Mr. 
             Babin):
       H.R. 282. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 107 North Hoyne Avenue in 
     Fritch, Texas, as the ``Chief Zeb Smith Post Office''; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota (for himself, Mr. Nehls, 
             Mr. Collins, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Moore of Alabama, 
             Mr. Bergman, Mr. Rulli, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Dunn of 
             Florida, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Clyde, Mr. Lawler, 
             Mrs. Houchin, Mr. Bean of Florida, Mr. Hamadeh of 
             Arizona, Mr. Babin, and Ms. Tenney):
       H.R. 283. A bill to authorize the President to enter into 
     negotiations for the reacquisition of the Panama Canal from 
     the Republic of Panama; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio (for himself, Mr. Huizenga, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Stauber, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. 
             Schneider, Ms. Tenney, Ms. Stevens, Mr. Foster, Ms. 
             Tlaib, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Morelle, Ms. Moore of 
             Wisconsin, Mr. Casten, Mr. Bergman, Ms. Scholten, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Thanedar, Mr. Mrvan, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. James, Mr. Steil, Ms. McDonald 
             Rivet, Mrs. Sykes, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Barrett, and Ms. 
             Brown):
       H.R. 284. A bill to reauthorize the Great Lakes Restoration 
     Initiative, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio (for himself, Ms. Lee of Nevada, 
             Mr. Ciscomani, and Mr. Pappas):
       H.R. 285. A bill to establish Joint Operations Centers 
     along the southern border of the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Ways and Means, and Homeland Security, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KUSTOFF (for himself, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. 
             Moskowitz, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Magaziner, Mr. 
             Gottheimer, Mr. Ezell, and Ms. Lee of Florida):
       H.R. 286. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     penalize false communications to cause an emergency response, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LaLOTA:
       H.R. 287. A bill to amend chapter 4 of title 39, United 
     States Code, to require the Postal Service to use a mobile 
     retail unit to provide retail postal services to an area when 
     the post office for such area is temporarily unable to 
     provide such services, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. LaLOTA (for himself and Mr. Courtney):
       H.R. 288. A bill to reauthorize Long Island Sound programs, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. LANGWORTHY (for himself and Ms. Balint):
       H.R. 289. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 with 
     respect to the Acer access and development program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. LANGWORTHY (for himself and Ms. Pingree):
       H.R. 290. A bill to reauthorize the Distance Learning and 
     Telemedicine Program of the Department of Agriculture; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. LANGWORTHY (for himself and Ms. Tokuda):
       H.R. 291. A bill to amend the Rural Innovation Stronger 
     Economy Grant Program of the Department of Agriculture; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. LANGWORTHY:
       H.R. 292. A bill to amend the Federal Crop Insurance Act to 
     require the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation to carry out 
     research and development regarding a policy to insure table, 
     wine, and juice grapes against losses due to a freeze event, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. LANGWORTHY (for himself and Mr. Courtney):
       H.R. 293. A bill to expand the seniors farmers' market 
     program to include maple syrup; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. LANGWORTHY (for himself, Mr. Van Orden, and Mr. 
             Courtney):
       H.R. 294. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 with 
     respect to the dairy margin coverage program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.

[[Page H90]]

  

           By Mr. LANGWORTHY (for himself, Mr. Van Orden, Mr. 
             Morelle, Mr. Finstad, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. 
             Costa, Mr. Newhouse, and Mr. Valadao):
       H.R. 295. A bill to amend the Agricultural Marketing Act of 
     1946 with respect to mandatory reporting of dairy products 
     processing costs; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. LAWLER (for himself, Ms. Tenney, Ms. 
             Malliotakis, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Garbarino, Mr. 
             Loudermilk, Mr. Langworthy, Mr. Ellzey, and Mr. 
             Crenshaw):
       H.R. 296. A bill to address the plea agreements for certain 
     individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
     Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. MALLIOTAKIS:
       H.R. 297. A bill to prohibit the availability of Federal 
     funds to institutions of higher education that conduct 
     painful biomedical research on dogs and cats; to the 
     Committee on Education and Workforce.
           By Ms. MALLIOTAKIS (for herself, Ms. Titus, Mr. 
             Bilirakis, and Mr. Pappas):
       H.R. 298. A bill to eliminate certain limitations and 
     exclusions regarding defense articles and requirements 
     regarding security assistance and sales with respect to the 
     Republic of Cyprus; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. MALLIOTAKIS:
       H.R. 299. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security and the Secretary of Health and Human Services to 
     make available to the public on the websites of their 
     respective departments certain information relating to 
     individuals processed through U.S. Customs and Border 
     Protection or Department of Health and Human Services 
     facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. MALOY:
       H.R. 300. A bill to allow States to elect to observe 
     daylight savings time for the duration of the year, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MALOY:
       H.R. 301. A bill to amend the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 
     to establish a deadline for processing applications related 
     to geothermal leasing; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MALOY (for herself, Mr. Moore of Utah, Mr. 
             Fulcher, Mr. Biggs of Arizona, and Mr. Estes):
       H.R. 302. A bill to prohibit the conditioning of any 
     permit, lease, or other use agreement on the transfer of any 
     water right to the United States by the Secretary of the 
     Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
       H.R. 303. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     permit additional retired members of the Armed Forces who 
     have a service-connected disability to receive both 
     disability compensation from the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs for their disability and either retired pay by reason 
     of their years of military service or combat-related special 
     compensation; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MAST (for himself, Ms. Salazar, Mr. Bean of 
             Florida, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Dunn of Florida, 
             Mr. Moskowitz, and Mr. Scott Franklin of Florida):
       H.R. 304. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 290 NW Peacock Boulevard in 
     Port St. Lucie, Florida, as the ``Trooper Zachary Fink Post 
     Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
       H.R. 305. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Education to 
     carry out a grant program to assist local educational 
     agencies with ensuring that each elementary and secondary 
     school has at least one registered nurse on staff; to the 
     Committee on Education and Workforce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. McBRIDE (for herself and Mrs. Kim):
       H.R. 306. A bill to amend the Credit Repair Organizations 
     Act to add additional protections against harmful practices 
     within the credit repair organization industry, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. McIVER (for herself, Mr. Jackson of Illinois, 
             and Ms. Kelly of Illinois):
       H.R. 307. A bill to amend titles XVIII and XIX of the 
     Social Security Act to provide for coverage of peripheral 
     artery disease screening tests furnished to at-risk 
     beneficiaries under the Medicare and Medicaid programs 
     without the imposition of cost-sharing requirements, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MOORE of Utah (for himself and Ms. Strickland):
       H.R. 308. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide tax incentives for rental housing for members of 
     the Armed Forces; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. NEHLS (for himself, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Stauber, 
             Mr. Costa, Ms. Brownley, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Thanedar, Ms. Mace, Mr. Valadao, Mr. 
             Babin, Mr. Ciscomani, Mr. Lawler, Mr. Amodei of 
             Nevada, Mr. Pappas, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Ryan, Ms. Craig, Mr. Garbarino, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mr. Neguse, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Ms. 
             Titus, Mrs. Hinson, Mr. Graves, Mr. Hudson, Mr. 
             Bacon, Mr. LaLota, Mrs. Fischbach, and Mr. 
             Gottheimer):
       H.R. 309. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to provide funding for the National Law Enforcement Museum, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. PERRY (for himself, Mr. Biggs of Arizona, Mr. 
             Ogles, and Mr. Roy):
       H.R. 310. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal certain credits; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. PERRY (for himself, Mr. Ogles, and Mr. 
             Burlison):
       H.R. 311. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal the alcohol fuels credit, the biodiesels fuel 
     credit, the sustainable aviation fuel credit, the clean fuel 
     production credit, the alcohol fuel, biodiesel, and 
     alternative fuel mixtures credit, and other related 
     provisions; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PERRY (for himself, Mr. Ogles, and Mr. Crane):
       H.R. 312. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal certain credits relating to alternative fuel 
     vehicles; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PFLUGER:
       H.R. 313. A bill to repeal the natural gas tax; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
       H.R. 314. A bill to require executive agencies to reduce 
     cost-sharing requirements for certain grants with certain 
     nonprofit organizations 25 percent, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
       H.R. 315. A bill to waive certain provisions in the case of 
     an emergency declaration under the Robert T. Stafford 
     Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ROUZER:
       H.R. 316. A bill to authorize the President to provide 
     disaster assistance to States and Indian Tribes under a major 
     disaster recovery program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ROY (for himself, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Cline, 
             Mr. Burlison, Mr. Clyde, Ms. Greene of Georgia, Mr. 
             Biggs of Arizona, and Mr. Ogles):
       H.R. 317. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to create health freedom accounts available to all 
     individuals; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ROY (for himself, Ms. Van Duyne, Mr. Stauber, 
             Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Cloud, 
             Mr. Crane, Mr. Perry, Mr. Weber of Texas, Ms. De La 
             Cruz, Mr. McCormick, Ms. Hageman, Mr. Williams of 
             Texas, Mr. Hunt, Mr. Collins, Mr. Ellzey, Mr. Kelly 
             of Mississippi, Mr. Cline, Mr. Van Drew, Mr. 
             Fitzgerald, Mr. Biggs of Arizona, Ms. Boebert, Mr. 
             Guthrie, Mr. Harris of Maryland, Mr. Self, Mr. Babin, 
             Mr. Fulcher, Mr. Ogles, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Zinke, 
             Mr. Issa, Mr. Norman, Mr. Sessions, Mrs. Miller of 
             Illinois, Mr. Luttrell, Mr. Fallon, Mr. Donalds, Mr. 
             Brecheen, Mr. Moore of Alabama, and Mrs. Luna):
       H.R. 318. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to suspend the entry of aliens, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SIMPSON (for himself and Mr. Fulcher):
       H.R. 319. A bill to authorize an additional district 
     judgeship for the district of Idaho; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. STEUBE:
       H.R. 320. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to eliminate the marriage penalty in the income tax rate 
     brackets; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. STEUBE:
       H.R. 321. A bill to establish a system to expedite gate 
     passes and flight access procedures to allow caregivers, 
     parents, and guardians to accompany minors and passengers 
     needing assistance to their flights; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

[[Page H91]]

  

           By Mr. SUOZZI (for himself and Mr. Dunn of Florida):
       H.R. 322. A bill to amend the Tariff Act of 1930 relating 
     to de minimis treatment under that Act; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Ms. TENNEY (for herself, Mr. Morelle, Mr. Garbarino, 
             Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Malliotakis, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, 
             Mr. Torres of New York, Mr. Lawler, and Mr. Tonko):
       H.R. 323. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 80 Prospect Street in Avon, 
     New York, as the ``Officer Anthony Mazurkiewicz Memorial Post 
     Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. TIMMONS:
       H.R. 324. A bill to provide for the collection and sharing 
     of information, including tax return information, for 
     purposes of criminal investigations with respect to loans 
     under the Paycheck Protection Program; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Small 
     Business, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. TITUS:
       H.R. 325. A bill to designate a peak in the State of Nevada 
     as Maude Frazier Mountain, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. VAN DUYNE (for herself, Ms. Tenney, Mr. 
             Balderson, and Mr. Harris of Maryland):
       H.R. 326. A bill to require the GAO to conduct a study 
     detailing the total cost of unused construction materials 
     that were obtained for the construction of a border wall 
     along the United States-Mexico border; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Ms. VAN DUYNE (for herself, Mr. Dunn of Florida, Mr. 
             McCormick, Mr. Valadao, and Mrs. Luna):
       H.R. 327. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     increase the penalty for fraudulent misrepresentation about 
     the receipt of a military decoration or medal, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for herself and Ms. Salazar):
       H.R. 328. A bill to immediately halt investment by United 
     States persons in the energy sector of Venezuela until the 
     legitimate results of the July 28, 2024, election are 
     respected; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for herself, Mrs. Cherfilus-
             McCormick, and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 329. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand the availability of penalty-free distributions to 
     unemployed individuals from retirement plans; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself, Ms. McClellan, Mrs. 
             Miller-Meeks, and Mr. Costa):
       H.R. 330. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services, acting through the Assistant Secretary for 
     Planning and Evaluation, to conduct a study on existing 
     efforts of hospitals with respect to electronic automated 
     referrals for purposes of organ donation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, and 
             Mr. Levin):
       H.J. Res. 13. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States limiting the pardon 
     power of the President; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON:
       H.J. Res. 14. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to repeal the sixteenth 
     article of amendment; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MESSMER:
       H.J. Res. 15. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of 
     Energy relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy 
     Conservation Standards for Commercial Water Heating 
     Equipment''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. Casten, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. 
             Pressley, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Mullin, and Ms. Tlaib):
       H.J. Res. 16. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States extending the right to 
     vote to citizens sixteen years of age or older; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. HOUCHIN:
       H. Res. 21. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. NEGUSE:
       H. Res. 22. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Ms. PETTERSEN (for herself, Mrs. Luna, Ms. Jacobs, 
             Mr. Lawler, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Ms. Leger 
             Fernandez, Mr. Ciscomani, Ms. Perez, Mrs. Kim, Mr. 
             Van Drew, and Mr. Neguse):
       H. Res. 23. A resolution permitting parental remote voting 
     by proxy, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Ms. GREENE of Georgia (for herself, Mrs. Miller of 
             Illinois, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Collins, Mr. Crane, 
             Ms. Malliotakis, Mr. Moylan, Mr. Nehls, Mrs. Luna, 
             and Mr. Van Drew):
       H. Res. 24. A resolution expunging the December 18, 2019, 
     impeachment of President Donald John Trump; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. GREENE of Georgia (for herself, Mrs. Miller of 
             Illinois, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Collins, Mr. Crane, 
             Ms. Malliotakis, Mr. Moylan, Mr. Nehls, Mrs. Luna, 
             and Mr. Van Drew):
       H. Res. 25. A resolution expunging the January 13, 2021, 
     impeachment of President Donald John Trump; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. GREENE of Georgia (for herself, Mr. Biggs of 
             Arizona, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, and Mr. Hunt):
       H. Res. 26. A resolution deeming certain conduct of members 
     of Antifa as domestic terrorism and designating Antifa as a 
     domestic terrorist organization; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. LaLOTA (for himself, Mr. Garbarino, Ms. 
             Malliotakis, and Mr. Lawler):
       H. Res. 27. A resolution expressing opposition to Central 
     Business District Tolling Program of New York City; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. PEREZ (for herself and Mr. Golden of Maine):
       H. Res. 28. A resolution eliminating the restriction that 
     witnesses may appear remotely at proceedings of committees of 
     the House of Representatives only at the discretion of the 
     chair of the committee; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Ms. TOKUDA (for herself, Mr. Case, and Ms. Sanchez):
       H. Res. 29. A resolution recognizing the 125th anniversary 
     of organized Okinawan immigration to the United States; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. WILLIAMS of Georgia (for herself, Mr. Bishop, 
             Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Jack, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mrs. McBath, Mr. McCormick, Mr. Austin Scott 
             of Georgia, Mr. Clyde, Mr. Collins, Mr. Loudermilk, 
             Mr. Allen, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. Greene of 
             Georgia, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Kennedy of New 
             York, Mr. Doggett, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Costa, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Thanedar, Ms. 
             Meng, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. 
             Tlaib, Ms. Moore of Wisconsin, Ms. Kamlager-Dove, Mr. 
             Jackson of Illinois, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. 
             Brown, Mrs. Cherfilus-McCormick, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Morelle, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mrs. Radewagen, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Ms. Garcia of Texas, Ms. Stevens, Mrs. 
             McIver, Mr. Soto, Mr. Fields, Ms. Dean of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Ivey, Mr. Green of Texas, Ms. 
             Crockett, Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Quigley, Mrs. 
             Ramirez, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Swalwell, Mr. 
             Cleaver, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Stanton, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Ms. McClellan, Mr. Evans of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Nadler, Ms. Titus, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, Mr. Lieu, 
             Mr. Norcross, Ms. Waters, Mr. Olszewski, Mr. Neguse, 
             Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Carter of Louisiana, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Goldman of New York, Ms. McCollum, 
             Mrs. Hayes, Mrs. Torres of California, Mr. Veasey, 
             Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Figures, Ms. McDonald 
             Rivet, Mr. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, 
             Mr. Menendez, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Brownley, 
             Mr. Panetta, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. Clyburn, 
             Ms. Craig, Mr. Casten, Mr. Turner of Texas, Mr. 
             Deluzio, Ms. Friedman, Mr. Hernandez, Mr. Takano, 
             Mrs. Trahan, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Lawler, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             Carson, Ms. Pou, Mr. Crow, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Cisneros, 
             Ms. Simon, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Tokuda, and Ms. 
             DelBene):
       H. Res. 30. A resolution honoring the life, achievements, 
     legacy, and public service of former President James Earl 
     ``Jimmy'' Carter, Jr; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.

                          ____________________

