[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 14 (Thursday, January 23, 2025)]
[House]
[Pages H383-H387]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. McCLELLAN (for herself, Mr. Lawler, Mr. 
             Sorensen, Ms. Bonamici, and Ms. Scholten):
       H.R. 641. A bill to establish an interagency committee on 
     soil carbon sequestration research, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Agriculture, and Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. STEUBE (for himself and Mr. Buchanan):
       H.R. 642. A bill to amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to 
     designate the portion of the Myakka River lying within 
     Sarasota County, Florida as a component of the National Wild 
     and Scenic Rivers System, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DOWNING (for himself, Mr. Cline, Mr. 
             Haridopolos, Mr. Norman, Mr. Ogles, Mr. Loudermilk, 
             Mr. Schmidt, Mr. Moore of Alabama, Mr. Grothman, and 
             Mr. Kennedy of Utah):
       H.R. 643. A bill to eliminate the Federal Insurance Office 
     of the Department of the Treasury, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself and Mr. Joyce of Ohio):
       H.R. 644. A bill to amend the Harmful Algal Bloom and 
     Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 to address harmful 
     algal blooms,

[[Page H384]]

     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology, and in addition to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MASSIE (for himself, Ms. Boebert, Mr. Biggs of 
             Arizona, Mr. Brecheen, Mr. Burchett, Mr. Burlison, 
             Mr. Cline, Mr. Cloud, Mr. Collins, Mr. Crane, Mr. 
             Gosar, Ms. Greene of Georgia, Mr. Harris of Maryland, 
             Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. Langworthy, Mrs. Luna, 
             Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Moore of Alabama, Mr. 
             Moran, Mr. Ogles, Mr. Rose, Mr. Roy, Mr. Self, Mrs. 
             Spartz, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Tiffany, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mr. Wied, Mr. Gill of Texas, and Mr. Harrigan):
       H.R. 645. A bill to enforce the rights protected by the 
     Second and Fourteenth Amendments against the States; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Ms. Titus, Ms. Barragan, 
             Ms. Scanlon, Mr. Panetta, Mrs. McIver, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Dean of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Hayes, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mrs. Ramirez, Ms. Salinas, Ms. Bynum, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Mr. Keating, Ms. Garcia of Texas, Mr. Evans of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Jacobs, Ms. Tlaib, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Ms. Tokuda, Ms. McClellan, Ms. Ross, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Landsman, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Ms. Escobar, Ms. Hoyle of Oregon, and Ms. 
             Dexter):
       H.R. 646. A bill to establish a grant program to address 
     the crises in accessing affordable housing and child care 
     through the co-location of housing and child care, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YAKYM (for himself and Mrs. Biggs of South 
             Carolina):
       H.R. 647. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the provision of certain additional burial benefits 
     for individuals for whom an urn or plaque is furnished, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. VAN ORDEN (for himself, Mr. Reschenthaler, Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, 
             Mr. Bacon, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Messmer, Mr. Steil, Mr. 
             Bishop, Mrs. Miller of West Virginia, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Clyde, Mrs. Luna, Mrs. Miller of 
             Illinois, Mr. Self, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Lawler, Mr. 
             Moskowitz, Mr. Finstad, Ms. Malliotakis, Mr. Austin 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Ogles, Mr. Grothman, Mr. 
             Downing, Mr. Langworthy, Mr. Meuser, and Mrs. 
             Cammack):
       H.R. 648. A bill to direct the Secretary of Defense to 
     provide fluid or powdered milk to members of the Armed Forces 
     at dining facilities on military installations; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania (for himself, Ms. 
             Schrier, Mr. Finstad, Ms. Craig, Ms. Tokuda, Mr. 
             Scott Franklin of Florida, Mr. Meuser, Mr. Estes, Mr. 
             Fleischmann, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mrs. Cammack, 
             Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Van Orden, Mr. 
             Langworthy, Ms. Pingree, Ms. De La Cruz, Mr. Bost, 
             Mr. Mann, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Joyce of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Fulcher, Mr. Jackson of Texas, Mr. Graves, Mr. 
             Moolenaar, Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. Alford, Mr. Bacon, Mr. 
             Owens, Mr. Costa, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Taylor, Mr. 
             Bishop, Mr. Perry, Mr. Deluzio, Mr. Mackenzie, Mrs. 
             Hayes, Mr. Bresnahan, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Harder of 
             California, Mr. Steil, Mr. Reschenthaler, Mr. Davis 
             of North Carolina, Mr. Barr, Ms. Budzinski, Mr. Ryan, 
             Mr. Vasquez, Mrs. Fischbach, Mr. Smucker, Mr. 
             Cuellar, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Golden of Maine, Mr. Rose, 
             Mr. Messmer, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Lawler, Mr. 
             Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Balderson, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. 
             Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Wied, Mr. Newhouse, Mrs. 
             Hinson, Mr. Moore of Alabama, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
             Valadao, Mr. Sorensen, Mr. Harris of North Carolina, 
             Mr. Tonko, Mr. Jackson of Illinois, Mr. Fitzpatrick, 
             and Mr. Guest):
       H.R. 649. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act to allow schools that participate in the 
     school lunch program under such Act to serve whole milk; to 
     the Committee on Education and Workforce.
           By Ms. FOXX (for herself, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Rose, 
             Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Higgins 
             of Louisiana, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Finstad, Mr. 
             Loudermilk, Mr. McCormick, and Mr. Haridopolos):
       H.R. 650. A bill to protect the right of parents to direct 
     the upbringing of their children as a fundamental right; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ALLEN:
       H.R. 651. A bill to require the Federal Communications 
     Commission to auction spectrum in the band between 1.3 
     gigahertz and 13.2 gigahertz, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ARRINGTON:
       H.R. 652. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow the deduction under section 199A to apply to 
     qualified BDC interest dividends in the same manner as 
     qualified REIT dividends; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BABIN (for himself and Mr. McCormick):
       H.R. 653. A bill to protect children from medical 
     malpractice in the form of gender transition procedures; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, Education and Workforce, Natural 
     Resources, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BARR:
       H.R. 654. A bill to change the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
     Protection into an independent agency named the Consumer 
     Financial Empowerment Agency, to transition the Agency to the 
     regular appropriations process, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BENTZ:
       H.R. 655. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     convey certain Federal land to the City of The Dalles, 
     Oregon; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. BICE (for herself and Ms. Houlahan):
       H.R. 656. A bill to improve parental leave for members of 
     the Armed Forces; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY (for herself, Ms. Hoyle of Oregon, Ms. 
             Tlaib, and Mr. Jackson of Illinois):
       H.R. 657. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the reimbursement of continuing professional 
     education expenses for health care professionals of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY:
       H.R. 658. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     establish qualifications for the appointment of a person as a 
     marriage and family therapist, qualified to provide clinical 
     supervision, in the Veterans Health Administration; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY (for herself and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 659. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals to give 
     priority to individuals with certain professional experience 
     in recommending such individuals to serve as members of the 
     Board of Veterans' Appeals, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY (for herself, Ms. Houlahan, Mr. 
             Gottheimer, and Ms. Omar):
       H.R. 660. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs and the Secretary of Defense to carry out programs to 
     provide to certain veterans who are women a compensation 
     benefit and an upgrade to the discharge status of such 
     veterans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, and in addition to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself, Mr. Soto, and Mrs. 
             Miller-Meeks):
       H.R. 661. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services, in consultation with the Secretary of 
     Commerce, the Council for Technology and Innovation of the 
     Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and the 
     Commissioner of Food and Drugs, to carry out a program to 
     facilitate and coordinate efforts between the United States 
     and Israel to expand and enhance collaboration on the 
     development and delivery of health care products and 
     services; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CAREY (for himself, Mr. Vicente Gonzalez of 
             Texas, Mr. Langworthy, Mr. Rulli, Mr. Davidson, Mr. 
             Crenshaw, Mr. Zinke, Mr. Balderson, Mr. Veasey, Mr. 
             LaHood, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Meuser, Mr. Thompson 
             of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Hern of 
             Oklahoma, Ms. Tenney, Mrs. Miller of West Virginia, 
             Mr. Williams of Texas, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Hunt, Mr. 
             Mann, Mr. Miller of Ohio, Mr. Cole, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. McDowell, Mr. Fallon, Ms. 
             Van Duyne, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Ellzey, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Evans of Colorado, Mr. Goldman of Texas, and Ms. 
             Malliotakis):
       H.R. 662. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow intangible drilling and development costs to be 
     taken into account when computing adjusted financial 
     statement income; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CASE (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Norton, and 
             Ms. Tlaib):
       H.R. 663. A bill to oppose the permitting of deep seabed 
     mining and exploration for deep seabed mining, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. CASE (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Norton, and 
             Ms. Tlaib):

[[Page H385]]

  

       H.R. 664. A bill to prohibit certain mining activities on 
     the deep seabed and Outer Continental Shelf, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CASE (for himself and Mr. Moylan):
       H.R. 665. A bill to amend title 46, United States Code, to 
     exempt certain noncontiguous trade from the coastwise laws; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. CASE (for himself and Mr. Moylan):
       H.R. 666. A bill to provide a definition of reasonable rate 
     for noncontiguous domestic ocean trade, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. CASE (for himself and Mr. Moylan):
       H.R. 667. A bill to amend title 46, United States Code, to 
     allow transportation of merchandise in noncontiguous trade on 
     foreign-flag vessels, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Education and Workforce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CISCOMANI (for himself, Mr. Davis of North 
             Carolina, and Mr. Turner of Ohio):
       H.R. 668. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program to coordinate, navigate, 
     and manage care and benefits for veterans enrolled in both 
     the Medicare program and the system of annual patient 
     enrollment of the Department of Veterans Affairs; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LIEU (for himself, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Cohen, Ms. Meng, Ms. Norton, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Chu, Mr. Amo, 
             Ms. Omar, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Tonko, and 
             Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 669. A bill to restrict the first-use strike of 
     nuclear weapons; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Moore of 
             Wisconsin, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Smith of Washington, Ms. 
             McCollum, Ms. Tlaib, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Omar, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and Mr. Beyer):
       H.R. 670. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide for a minimum number of refugees who may be 
     admitted in any fiscal year after fiscal year 2026, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Ms. Norton, and Ms. 
             Ansari):
       H.R. 671. A bill to establish an interagency task force to 
     increase vital documents access for unaccompanied homeless 
     youth; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DIAZ-BALART (for himself, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Steil, Mr. Calvert, Mrs. Torres of California, 
             Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. Courtney, Ms. Hageman, Mr. 
             Webster of Florida, Ms. Pettersen, and Ms. Boebert):
       H.R. 672. A bill to establish new ZIP Codes for certain 
     communities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. GARCIA of California:
       H.R. 673. A bill to transfer Homeland Security 
     Investigations from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 
     redesignate U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement as U.S. 
     Immigration Compliance Enforcement, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOLDEN of Maine (for himself and Mr. Van Drew):
       H.R. 674. A bill to prohibit commercial offshore wind 
     energy development in Lobster Management Area 1 in the Gulf 
     of Maine, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 675. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services, in collaboration with the Assistant Secretary 
     for Preparedness and Response and the Director of the Centers 
     for Disease Control and Prevention, and in coordination with 
     the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security, to establish a program of entering into 
     partnerships with eligible domestic manufacturers to ensure 
     the availability of qualified personal protective equipment 
     to prepare for and respond to national health or other 
     emergencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. HAGEMAN:
       H.R. 676. A bill to exempt Federal actions related to 
     energy and mineral activities on certain Federal lands from 
     the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 
     1969; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. HAGEMAN:
       H.R. 677. A bill to establish a process to expedite the 
     review of appeals of certain decisions by the Department of 
     the Interior; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. HAGEMAN:
       H.R. 678. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to 
     improve the assessment of expression of interest fees, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. HARSHBARGER (for herself, Mr. Hern of Oklahoma, 
             Mr. Bost, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, Mr. Babin, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Mr. Baird, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Feenstra, Mr. Yakym, Mr. Biggs of Arizona, Mr. 
             Palmer, and Mr. Guest):
       H.R. 679. A bill to nullify the modifications made by the 
     Food and Drug Administration in January 2023 to the risk 
     evaluation and mitigation strategy for the abortion pill 
     mifepristone, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. HAYES (for herself and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 680. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve and to expand eligibility for dependency and 
     indemnity compensation paid to certain survivors of certain 
     veterans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. KEATING:
       H.R. 681. A bill to amend the Act of August 9, 1955 
     (commonly known as the ``Long-Term Leasing Act''), to 
     authorize leases of up to 99 years for land held in trust for 
     the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe and the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay 
     Head (Aquinnah), and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Smith of 
             New Jersey, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Crenshaw, Mrs. Miller 
             of Illinois, Mr. Burchett, Mr. Estes, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, Mr. Baird, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Ezell, Mr. 
             Allen, Mr. Fallon, Mr. Crane, Mr. Johnson of South 
             Dakota, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Bost, Mr. LaHood, Mr. 
             Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Feenstra, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Moore of Alabama, Ms. 
             Tenney, Mr. Fulcher, Mr. Mann, and Mr. Guest):
       H.R. 682. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit abortion in cases where a fetal heartbeat is 
     detectable; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. KIM (for herself, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Ciscomani, 
             Ms. Tokuda, Mr. Lawler, and Mr. Cisneros):
       H.R. 683. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to establish a pilot program to permit certain 
     members of the Armed Forces to pre-enroll in the system of 
     annual patient enrollment established and operated under 
     section 1705 of title 38, United States Code; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. KUSTOFF:
       H.R. 684. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal the excise tax on repurchase of corporate stock; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Brecheen, 
             Mr. Strong, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Mr. Finstad, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Feenstra, Mr. 
             Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Fulcher, Mr. Flood, Mr. 
             Mann, Mr. Harris of Maryland, Mr. Fong, Mr. Ellzey, 
             Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. McCormick, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. 
             Ogles, Mr. Guest, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Palmer, Mr. Moore of North Carolina, Mr. Shreve, and 
             Mr. LaHood):
       H.R. 685. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to prohibit the approval of new abortion drugs, 
     to prohibit investigational use exemptions for abortion 
     drugs, and to impose additional regulatory requirements with 
     respect to previously approved abortion drugs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. 
             Webster of Florida, Mr. Harris of Maryland, Mr. Weber 
             of Texas, and Mr. Babin):
       H.R. 686. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the unlawful disposal of fetal remains; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself, Mr. Carter of Georgia, 
             Mrs. Houchin, Mr. Crawford, Mr. Owens, Mr. Collins, 
             Mrs. Luna, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Mann, Mr. 
             Scott Franklin of Florida, Mr. Meuser, Mr. Babin, Ms. 
             Tenney, Mr. Baird, Mr. Steube, and Mr. Burchett):
       H.R. 687. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for an alternative removal for performance or 
     misconduct for Federal employees; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.

[[Page H386]]

  

           By Ms. MACE:
       H.R. 688. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to furnish tailored information to expecting 
     mothers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Ms. MALOY (for herself, Mr. Finstad, Mr. Moore of 
             Utah, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Owens, Mr. 
             Pfluger, Mr. Ciscomani, Mr. Stauber, Mrs. Fischbach, 
             Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Collins, Mr. Moylan, Mr. Yakym, Mr. 
             Fong, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Fulcher, and Mr. Kennedy of 
             Utah):
       H.R. 689. A bill to require each agency to evaluate the 
     permitting system of the agency, to consider whether 
     permitting by rule could replace that system, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. MANN (for himself and Mr. Womack):
       H.R. 690. A bill to prohibit the use of Federal funds to 
     implement Salmonella framework for raw poultry products; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. MCDOWELL (for himself, Mr. Reschenthaler, Mr. 
             Gill of Texas, Mr. Moore of West Virginia, and Mr. 
             Jack):
       H.R. 691. A bill to designate the Washington Dulles 
     International Airport in Virginia as the ``Donald J. Trump 
     International Airport''; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. MEUSER (for himself, Mr. Loudermilk, Ms. Lee of 
             Nevada, Ms. De La Cruz, Mr. Moolenaar, and Mr. 
             Messmer):
       H.R. 692. A bill to require the United States Executive 
     Director at the International Monetary Fund to advocate for 
     increased transparency with respect to exchange rate policies 
     of the People's Republic of China, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. MOOLENAAR (for himself and Mr. Krishnamoorthi):
       H.R. 693. A bill to amend the Office of National Drug 
     Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 to modify the 
     authority of the Office of National Drug Control Policy with 
     respect to the World Anti-Doping Agency, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MOOLENAAR (for himself and Mr. Suozzi):
       H.R. 694. A bill to suspend normal trade relations with the 
     People's Republic of China and to increase the rates of duty 
     applicable with respect to articles imported from the 
     People's Republic of China, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Agriculture, Armed Services, Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. NEHLS (for himself, Mr. Pappas, Ms. Boebert, and 
             Ms. De La Cruz):
       H.R. 695. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     increase the rate of the special pension payable to Medal of 
     Honor recipients, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. NEHLS (for himself, Mr. Tiffany, Mr. Schmidt, 
             Mr. Biggs of Arizona, and Mr. Van Drew):
       H.R. 696. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to reform temporary protected status, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Homeland Security, and Transportation 
     and Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. OGLES:
       H.R. 697. A bill to establish Schedule Policy/Career 
     (commonly referred to as ``Schedule F'') in the excepted 
     service, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. ROUZER (for himself, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Balderson, 
             and Ms. Malliotakis):
       H.R. 698. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to permanently bar aliens who are ordered removed after 
     failing to appear at a removal proceeding, absent exceptional 
     circumstances, from becoming permanent residents of the 
     United States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROY (for himself, Mr. Cloud, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Guest, Mr. Ogles, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. 
             Stauber, Mr. Biggs of Arizona, and Mr. Crenshaw):
       H.R. 699. A bill to prohibit United States contributions to 
     the United Nations Population Fund; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SELF:
       H.R. 700. A bill to amend the mission statement of the 
     United States Military Academy to include the phrase ``Duty, 
     Honor, Country''; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. SHERRILL (for herself and Mrs. Hayes):
       H.R. 701. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide tax incentives for the establishment and operation 
     of small food retail businesses in areas with high food 
     retail concentration and low levels of competition; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. SHERRILL:
       H.R. 702. A bill to modify the measure and use of the 
     poverty line issued by the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services to more accurately account for the basic needs of 
     families and regional costs of living; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMUCKER (for himself, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. LaHood, Ms. Van Duyne, Mr. Buchanan, Mrs. Miller 
             of West Virginia, Mr. Feenstra, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Stauber, Mr. Joyce of Pennsylvania, Mr. Bost, Mr. 
             Crenshaw, Mr. Meuser, Mr. Ellzey, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Ms. Salazar, Mr. Clyde, Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. Rouzer, 
             Mrs. Cammack, Mr. Finstad, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. 
             Ciscomani, Mr. Cline, Mr. Fong, Mr. Smith of 
             Nebraska, Mr. Rulli, Mr. Moolenaar, Ms. Foxx, Mr. 
             Lawler, Mr. Green of Tennessee, Mr. Rogers of 
             Kentucky, Mrs. Bice, Mr. Strong, Mr. Guest, Mr. 
             Hudson, Mr. Kean, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Nunn of 
             Iowa, Mr. Moran, Mr. Fallon, Mr. Edwards, Mr. Moore 
             of West Virginia, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Hern of 
             Oklahoma, Mr. Estes, Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. Moore of 
             Utah, Mr. Kustoff, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Van Orden, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Baird, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Carey, 
             Mr. Griffith, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Webster of Florida, 
             Mrs. Kim, Mr. LaLota, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, 
             Mr. Zinke, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Alford, Mr. Fulcher, Mr. Balderson, Mr. Kiley of 
             California, Mr. Garbarino, Mr. Barrett, Mr. Moore of 
             Alabama, Mr. Graves, Mr. Miller of Ohio, Mr. Van 
             Drew, Mr. Ezell, Mrs. Harshbarger, Ms. Maloy, Ms. 
             Letlow, Mrs. Hinson, Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia, Mr. 
             Bacon, Mr. Begich, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Walberg, Mr. 
             Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Collins, Mr. Langworthy, 
             Mr. Scott Franklin of Florida, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. 
             Huizenga, Mr. Allen, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Amodei of Nevada, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Owens, Mr. Steil, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. 
             Barr, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Burchett, Mr. 
             Newhouse, Ms. Mace, Mr. Mackenzie, Mrs. Houchin, Mr. 
             Williams of Texas, Ms. Tenney, Mrs. Fischbach, Ms. 
             Hageman, Mr. Steube, Mr. Gill of Texas, Mr. Schmidt, 
             Ms. De La Cruz, Mr. McCormick, Mr. McDowell, Mr. 
             Bresnahan, Mrs. Miller-Meeks, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. 
             Yakym, Mr. Gooden, Mr. Johnson of South Dakota, Ms. 
             Malliotakis, Mr. Perry, Mr. Burlison, Mr. Arrington, 
             Mr. Bean of Florida, Mr. Timmons, Mrs. Miller of 
             Illinois, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Wied, Ms. 
             Greene of Georgia, Mr. Downing, Mr. Crank, Mr. 
             Gimenez, Mr. Davidson, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Taylor, Mr. 
             Moore of North Carolina, Mr. Luttrell, Mr. 
             Schweikert, Mr. Comer, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, 
             Mr. Jack, Mr. Stutzman, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. 
             Reschenthaler, Mr. Fry, Mr. Cole, Mr. Hill of 
             Arkansas, Mr. Jackson of Texas, Mr. Mills, and Mr. 
             McGuire):
       H.R. 703. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to make permanent the deduction for qualified business 
     income; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 704. A bill to provide for the issuance of a Manatee 
     Semipostal Stamp; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. STRICKLAND (for herself and Mr. Lawler):
       H.R. 705. A bill to direct the Secretary of Defense to 
     establish a compensation fund for military firefighters 
     exposed to PFAS; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. STRONG (for himself and Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana):
       H.R. 706. A bill to improve the biodetection functions of 
     the Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. STRONG:
       H.R. 707. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to make unlawful voting an aggravated felony; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. STRONG (for himself, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Green of Tennessee, Mr. Guest, Mr. 
             Luttrell, and Mr. Evans of Colorado):
       H.R. 708. A bill to establish in the Department of Homeland 
     Security a working group relating to countering terrorist, 
     cybersecurity, border and port security, and transportation 
     security threats posed to the United States by the Chinese 
     Communist Party, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security, and in addition to the Committees on Ways 
     and Means, Financial Services, and the Judiciary, for a 
     period to

[[Page H387]]

     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. STRONG:
       H.R. 709. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to require the Attorney General, in coordination with the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security, to establish counter-UAS 
     system training and require the Attorney General and 
     Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the 
     Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
     establish related standards for initial and recurrent 
     training programs or certifications for individuals seeking 
     to operate counter-UAS detection and mitigation systems, 
     equipment, or technology, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself, Mr. Harris of North 
             Carolina, Mr. Rulli, Mr. Stutzman, Mr. Collins, Mr. 
             Hamadeh of Arizona, Mr. Wied, and Mr. Gill of Texas):
       H.R. 710. A bill to require agencies to repeal ten existing 
     regulations before issuing a new regulation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TIFFANY (for himself, Mr. Owens, Ms. Tenney, Ms. 
             Hageman, Mr. Ogles, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. 
             Grothman, Mr. Weber of Texas, and Mr. Moore of 
             Alabama):
       H.R. 711. A bill to provide for equal protection of the law 
     and to prohibit discrimination and preferential treatment on 
     the basis of race, color, or national origin in Federal 
     actions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, Education and Workforce, and House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. VAN DREW (for himself and Ms. Brownley):
       H.R. 712. A bill to amend the Child Abuse Prevention and 
     Treatment Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services to include data on animal abuse in the national 
     clearinghouse for information relating to child abuse and 
     neglect; to the Committee on Education and Workforce.
           By Ms. VAN DUYNE:
       H.R. 713. A bill to impose a financial penalty on certain 
     institutions of higher education with high percentages of 
     students who default or make insufficient payments on Federal 
     student loans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
       H.R. 714. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to create a pilot program to award grants to 
     units of general local government and community-based 
     organizations to create jobs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and Workforce.
           By Mr. WOMACK (for himself, Mr. Moulton, and Mr. 
             Wittman):
       H.R. 715. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exclude from gross income the basic needs allowance of 
     members of the Armed Forces; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. ZINKE:
       H.R. 716. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to 
     ensure full pool levels of Flathead Lake in Montana in 
     accordance with certain requirements, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ZINKE (for himself and Mr. Beyer):
       H.R. 717. A bill to establish the Wildlife Movement and 
     Movement Area Grant Program and the State and Tribal 
     Migration Research Program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ZINKE (for himself and Mr. Vasquez):
       H.R. 718. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of the Interior 
     and the Secretary of Agriculture from transferring certain 
     Federal land, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. OGLES:
       H.J. Res. 29. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to provide that no 
     person shall be elected to the office of the President more 
     than three times; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BALDERSON (for himself, Mr. Pfluger, Ms. Tenney, 
             and Mr. Meuser):
       H. Res. 57. A resolution recognizing the benefits of 
     natural gas to the United States economy and environment, and 
     recognizing natural gas as an affordable and ``green'' 
     energy; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Natural Resources, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BALINT:
       H. Res. 58. A resolution congratulating the University of 
     Vermont men's soccer team on winning the 2024 National 
     Collegiate Athletic Association Division I men's soccer 
     national championship; to the Committee on Education and 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. BRECHEEN (for himself, Mr. Clyde, Mr. Grothman, 
             Mr. Burlison, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Harris of 
             North Carolina, Mrs. Bice, Mrs. Luna, Mr. Moore of 
             Alabama, Mr. Ogles, Ms. Greene of Georgia, Mr. 
             Norman, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Allen, Mr. Babin, 
             Mrs. Houchin, Ms. Van Duyne, Mr. Baird, Mrs. Biggs of 
             South Carolina, Ms. Boebert, and Mr. Griffith):
       H. Res. 59. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the sermon given by the Right 
     Reverend Mariann Edgar Budde at the National Prayer Service 
     on January 21st, 2025, at the National Cathedral was a 
     display of political activism and condemning its distorted 
     message; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY (for herself and Ms. Norton):
       H. Res. 60. A resolution expressing the support of the 
     House of Representatives for the naming of new or undedicated 
     facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs after women 
     veterans and minority veterans in order to reflect the 
     diversity of all who have served in the Armed Forces of the 
     United States; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CARSON (for himself, Ms. Omar, Ms. Simon, and 
             Ms. Tlaib):
       H. Res. 61. A resolution expressing support for the 
     recognition of January as ``Muslim-American Heritage Month'' 
     and celebrating the heritage and culture of Muslim Americans 
     in the United States; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
       H. Res. 62. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals of 
     a Juan Pablo Duarte Day; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. MOOLENAAR (for himself, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Weber 
             of Texas, Mr. Bean of Florida, Mr. Meuser, Mr. 
             Ciscomani, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Strong, Mr. Issa, Mr. 
             Moore of West Virginia, Mr. Owens, Mrs. Cammack, Mr. 
             Bergman, Ms. Mace, Ms. Letlow, Mrs. Miller-Meeks, Mr. 
             McCormick, Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Moore of North 
             Carolina, Mr. Burlison, Mr. Dunn of Florida, Mr. 
             Green of Tennessee, Mr. Barrett, Mr. Scott Franklin 
             of Florida, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. 
             James, Mr. Lawler, Mr. Mills, and Mr. McGuire):
       H. Res. 63. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the week of January 26 through February 1, 
     2025, as ``National School Choice Week''; to the Committee on 
     Education and Workforce.
           By Mr. SUOZZI:
       H. Res. 64. A resolution affirming the alliance between the 
     United States and the Republic of Korea; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________

