[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 9 (Thursday, January 16, 2025)]
[House]
[Pages H217-H221]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself, Mr. Soto, Mr. Bean of 
             Florida, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Ms. Mace, Mr. Webster 
             of Florida, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Donalds, Mr. Scott 
             Franklin of Florida, Ms. Salazar, Mr. Dunn of 
             Florida, Ms. Lee of Florida, Mr. Mast, Mr. Gimenez, 
             Mr. Fry, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, and Mrs. Luna):
       H.R. 470. A bill to provide that the Secretary of Commerce 
     shall not issue an interim or final rule or Secretarial 
     Amendment that includes an area or bottom closure in the 
     South Atlantic for species managed under the Fishery 
     Management Plan for the Snapper-Grouper Fishery of the South 
     Atlantic Region until the South Atlantic Great Red Snapper 
     Count study is complete and the data related to that study is 
     integrated into the stock assessment; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WESTERMAN (for himself, Mr. Peters, Mr. Tiffany, 
             Mr. Panetta, Mr. Stauber, Mr. Whitesides, Mr. 
             Collins, Mr. Vasquez, Mrs. Kim, Mr. Costa, Mr. Zinke, 
             Mr. Harder of California, Mr. Johnson of South 
             Dakota, Mr. Bera, Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Ms. Maloy, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. 
             Begich, Mr. Correa, Mr. Crank, Mr. Golden of Maine, 
             Mr. Ezell, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Hurd of Colorado, Ms. Lee 
             of Nevada, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Gray, Mr. Barr, Mr. 
             Hoyer, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Ms. Pettersen, Mr. 
             Joyce of Pennsylvania, Mr. Obernolte, Mr. Walberg, 
             Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Gosar, Ms. Boebert, Mr. McClintock, 
             Mr. Issa, Mr. Fong, Ms. Hageman, Mr. Fry, and Mr. 
             Amodei of Nevada):
       H.R. 471. A bill to expedite under the National 
     Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and improve forest 
     management activities on National Forest System lands, on 
     public lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
     Management, and on Tribal lands to return resilience to 
     overgrown, fire-prone forested lands, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Agriculture, and Science, Space, and 
     Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BOST (for himself, Mr. Rouzer, Mrs. Kiggans of 
             Virginia, Mrs. Miller-Meeks, Mr. Obernolte, Mr. Issa, 
             Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Ciscomani, Mr. Van 
             Orden, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Self, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. 
             Webster of Florida, Mr. Cline, Mr. Bergman, Mr. 
             Loudermilk, Mrs. Harshbarger, Mrs. Cammack, Mrs. 
             King-Hinds, Ms. Mace, Mr. Hamadeh of Arizona, Mr. 
             Barrett, and Mr. Luttrell):
       H.R. 472. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     modify personnel action procedures with respect to employees 
     of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. COMER (for himself, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, 
             Mr. Timmons, Mr. Biggs of Arizona, Mr. Cloud, Ms. 
             Foxx, Mr. Langworthy, Mr. Crane, Mr. Palmer, Mr. 
             McGuire, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Fallon, Mr. Burlison, Mr. 
             Sessions, Mr. Jack, Mr. Burchett, Ms. Boebert, Mr. 
             Perry, and Ms. Greene of Georgia):
       H.R. 473. A bill to restore in-person work at Federal 
     agencies to not less than pre-pandemic levels, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. ROUZER (for himself, Mr. Harris of North 
             Carolina, Mr. Hudson, Mrs. Foushee, Mr. Murphy, Ms. 
             Ross, Mr. Davis of North Carolina, Mr. McDowell, and 
             Mr. Moore of North Carolina):
       H.R. 474. A bill to amend the Lumbee Act of 1956; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MEEKS (for himself, Mr. Keating, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Costa, Ms. Titus, Mr. Cohen, 
             Mr. Amo, Mr. Foster, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Bera, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Quigley, and Mr. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 475. A bill to authorize the imposition of sanctions 
     with respect to any foreign person endangering the integrity 
     or safety of the Zaporzhzhia nuclear power plant; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEEKS (for himself, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Wilson of 
             South Carolina, Mr. Amo, Mr. Keating, and Mr. 
             Gottheimer):
       H.R. 476. A bill to require the imposition of sanctions 
     with respect to any foreign person that knowingly 
     participates in the construction, maintenance, or repair of a 
     tunnel or bridge that connects the Russian mainland with the 
     Crimean peninsula; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and 
     in addition to

[[Page H218]]

     the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FONG (for himself and Mr. Mullin):
       H.R. 477. A bill to advance scientific research and 
     technology development of hypersonic vehicles, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. BARR:
       H.R. 478. A bill to require the appropriate Federal banking 
     agencies to establish a 3-year phase-in period for de novo 
     financial institutions to comply with Federal capital 
     standards, to provide relief for de novo rural community 
     banks, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. BRECHEEN (for himself, Mr. Grothman, Mr. 
             Schweikert, Mr. Biggs of Arizona, Mr. Cloud, Mr. 
             Gosar, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, and Mr. Meuser):
       H.R. 479. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to require the Secretary to designate food and food 
     products to be made available under the supplemental 
     nutrition assistance program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY:
       H.R. 480. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to establish a methane border adjustment mechanism; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY:
       H.R. 481. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal the limitation on deductions for personal casualty 
     losses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself, Mr. Donalds, Mr. Van 
             Orden, and Mr. Horsford):
       H.R. 482. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to eliminate the application of the income tax on qualified 
     tips through a deduction allowed to all individual taxpayers, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself, Mr. Panetta, and Mr. 
             Crenshaw):
       H.R. 483. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to delay the implementation of electronic 
     clinical quality metrics for accountable care organizations, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARSON (for himself, Mr. Carter of Louisiana, 
             Mr. Casten, Mrs. Cherfilus-McCormick, Mr. Cohen, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Goldman of New York, Ms. Norton, Mr. Horsford, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Lynch, Mrs. McIver, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Mrvan, Mr. Mullin, Ms. Ross, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. 
             Scholten, Mr. Soto, Ms. Stansbury, Ms. Stevens, Ms. 
             Tlaib, Mr. Takano, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Tokuda, and Ms. 
             Velazquez):
       H.R. 484. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     make grants to States to support the establishment and 
     operation of grocery stores in underserved communities, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. CARSON (for himself, Ms. Adams, Mr. Bishop, Ms. 
             Brownley, Mr. Carter of Louisiana, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Costa, Ms. Davids 
             of Kansas, Mr. Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Doggett, Mr. Evans of Pennsylvania, Mr. Frost, Mr. 
             Green of Texas, Mrs. Hayes, Ms. Norton, Mr. Jackson 
             of Illinois, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Kamlager-
             Dove, Mr. Keating, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Ms. Lee of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Lynch, Mr. McGarvey, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mrs. McIver, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Moore of Wisconsin, Mr. 
             Mrvan, Mr. Mullin, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, Ms. Pressley, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Strickland, Mr. Thanedar, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Tlaib, Mr. Torres of New 
             York, and Mr. Vargas):
       H.R. 485. A bill to posthumously award a Congressional Gold 
     Medal to Muhammad Ali, in recognition of his contributions to 
     the United States; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CARSON (for himself, Mr. Amo, Ms. Barragan, Ms. 
             Brown, Mr. Carter of Louisiana, Mr. Case, Mr. Casten, 
             Mr. Cohen, Ms. Dean of Pennsylvania, Mr. Espaillat, 
             Mr. Evans of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Hayes, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Magaziner, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mrs. McIver, Mrs. Ramirez, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Scholten, 
             Mr. Soto, Mr. Thanedar, Ms. Titus, and Mr. Torres of 
             New York):
       H.R. 486. A bill to establish a grant program in the Bureau 
     of Consumer Financial Protection to fund the establishment of 
     centers of excellence to support research, development and 
     planning, implementation, and evaluation of effective 
     programs in financial literacy education for young people and 
     families ages 8 through 24 years old, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Education and Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CASE (for himself and Ms. Tokuda):
       H.R. 487. A bill to amend the Farm Security and Rural 
     Investment Act of 2002 by requiring preclearance quarantine 
     inspections for all movement to or from the State of Hawaii 
     by either domestic or international travel, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. CISCOMANI (for himself and Ms. Houlahan):
       H.R. 488. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security and the Secretary of State to implement a strategy 
     to combat the efforts of transnational criminal organizations 
     to recruit individuals in the United States via social media 
     platforms and other online services and assess their use of 
     such platforms and services for illicit activities; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees 
     on Homeland Security, Foreign Affairs, and Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CLOUD (for himself, Mr. Donalds, Mr. Perry, Ms. 
             Van Duyne, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Brecheen, Mr. 
             Burlison, Mr. Moore of Alabama, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Ms. Boebert, and Mrs. Luna):
       H.R. 489. A bill to establish the Federal Agency Sunset 
     Commission; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COHEN:
       H.R. 490. A bill to prohibit Federal funds from being used 
     for any property or entity owned by Donald J. Trump, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr. Mullin, Ms. Tlaib, 
             Ms. Brownley, Mr. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Cleaver, 
             Mr. Davis of North Carolina, Mrs. McBath, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mr. Frost, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Leger Fernandez, 
             Mr. Mrvan, Mr. Thanedar, Ms. Titus, Mrs. Cherfilus-
             McCormick, Mr. Raskin, Ms. McClellan, Mr. Casar, Mr. 
             Davis of Illinois, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Ms. Salinas, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Goldman of New York, Ms. 
             Hoyle of Oregon, Mr. Takano, and Mr. Mfume):
       H.R. 491. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     achieve parity between the cost-of-living adjustment with 
     respect to an annuity under the Federal Employees Retirement 
     System and an annuity under the Civil Service Retirement 
     System, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. 
             Mfume, and Mr. Bacon):
       H.R. 492. A bill to prohibit the establishment of schedule 
     F of the excepted service, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Lee of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Subramanyam, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Beyer, 
             and Mr. Mfume):
       H.R. 493. A bill to increase the rates of pay under the 
     statutory pay systems and for prevailing rate employees by 
     4.3 percent, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and Mr. Strong):
       H.R. 494. A bill to amend the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act 
     of 2014 to make improvements to the Federal Cyber Scholarship 
     for Service Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. CRANE (for himself, Mr. Correa, Mr. Biggs of 
             Arizona, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Luttrell, and Mr. Ogles):
       H.R. 495. A bill to require annual reports on counter 
     illicit cross-border tunnel operations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. CRANE:
       H.R. 496. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to notify the Attorney General that basis for the 
     transmission of certain information to the Department of 
     Justice for use by the national instant criminal background 
     check system was improper, does not apply, or no longer 
     applies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CRENSHAW:
       H.R. 497. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide clarification with respect to the liability of 
     third party payers for medical assistance paid under the 
     Medicaid program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CRENSHAW (for himself and Ms. Greene of 
             Georgia):

[[Page H219]]

  

       H.R. 498. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to prohibit Federal Medicaid funding for gender 
     transition procedures for minors; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Ms. CROCKETT (for herself, Mr. Gooden, Ms. Garcia of 
             Texas, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Green of 
             Texas, and Ms. Escobar):
       H.R. 499. A bill to rename the medical center of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs in Dallas, Texas, as the 
     ``Eddie Bernice Johnson VA Medical Center''; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, Mr. Doggett, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             Mrs. Cherfilus-McCormick, Ms. Norton, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Harder of 
             California, Mrs. McIver, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Bynum, Ms. Tlaib, Mrs. Hayes, Mr. Mullin, Mr. 
             Clyburn, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Jackson of Illinois, Mr. 
             Moskowitz, and Mr. Lieu):
       H.R. 500. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to remove the exclusion of Medicare coverage for 
     hearing aids and examinations therefor, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. EDWARDS (for himself and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 501. A bill to amend certain laws relating to disaster 
     recovery and relief with respect to the implementation of 
     building codes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. FINSTAD (for himself, Mr. Golden of Maine, Mr. 
             Stauber, Mr. Mann, Mrs. Fischbach, Mr. Van Orden, and 
             Mr. Moolenaar):
       H.R. 502. A bill to ensure the rural surface transportation 
     grant program is accessible to rural areas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Ms. FOXX (for herself and Mr. Van Orden):
       H.R. 503. A bill to amend the Revised Statutes to codify 
     the defense of qualified immunity in the case of any action 
     under section 1979, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GIMENEZ (for himself, Mr. Diaz-Balart, and Ms. 
             Salazar):
       H.R. 504. A bill to amend the Miccosukee Reserved Area Act 
     to authorize the expansion of the Miccosukee Reserved Area 
     and to carry out activities to protect structures within the 
     Osceola Camp from flooding, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOLDEN of Maine:
       H.R. 505. A bill to impose additional duties on imports of 
     goods into the United States; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. TONY GONZALES of Texas (for himself, Mr. 
             Ciscomani, Ms. Salazar, Ms. De La Cruz, Mr. Feenstra, 
             Mr. Evans of Colorado, Mr. Valadao, Mrs. Kim, Mr. 
             Kean, Mr. Babin, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mrs. Hinson, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, and Mr. 
             Moylan):
       H.R. 506. A bill to require assessments for Foreign 
     Terrorist Organization designations, authorize certain 
     appropriations for certain fiscal years for Operation 
     Stonegarden, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. VICENTE GONZALEZ of Texas (for himself, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Costa, Ms. Tokuda, Mr. Ciscomani, 
             Ms. Brownley, Mr. Golden of Maine, Mrs. Cherfilus-
             McCormick, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Biggs of Arizona, Mr. 
             Valadao, Mr. Cuellar, Ms. Titus, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Lynch, Mr. Carson, Mr. Rogers of Kentucky, Mr. Cole, 
             Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. Ryan, Mr. Rutherford, and Mr. 
             Crane):
       H.R. 507. A bill to amend the Federal Credit Union Act to 
     exclude extensions of credit made to veterans from the 
     definition of a member business loan; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
       H.R. 508. A bill to allow expensing of amounts paid to move 
     business property from China to the United States, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
       H.R. 509. A bill to decrease dependency on People's 
     Republic of China manufacturing and decrease migration due to 
     lost regional economic opportunities; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. HAGEMAN:
       H.R. 510. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for a 6 month delay before a final rule may take 
     effect; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HARRIGAN (for himself, Mr. Kennedy of Utah, Mr. 
             Ogles, Mr. Hamadeh of Arizona, Mr. Stutzman, Mr. 
             Wied, Mrs. Luna, Mr. Knott, Mr. Harris of North 
             Carolina, Mr. Nehls, Mr. Moore of West Virginia, Mr. 
             Onder, Mr. Barrett, Mr. Edwards, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Self, Mr. Downing, Mr. Jack, Mr. Schmidt, Mr. 
             Messmer, Mr. McGuire, Mr. Haridopolos, and Mr. 
             Rulli):
       H.R. 511. A bill to provide remedies to members of the 
     Armed Forces discharged or subject to adverse action under 
     the COVID-19 vaccine mandate; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
       H.R. 512. A bill to establish a fund to promote the 
     inspection and consumption of shrimp and products containing 
     shrimp or shrimp parts; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. Hunt, Mr. 
             Weber of Texas, Mr. Burchett, Mr. Shreve, Mr. Meuser, 
             Mr. Arrington, Mrs. Miller of West Virginia, Mr. 
             Crenshaw, Mr. Brecheen, Ms. Van Duyne, Mr. Perry, Mr. 
             Tiffany, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Ogles, Mr. 
             Burlison, Mr. Clyde, Mr. Biggs of Arizona, Mr. Harris 
             of Maryland, and Mr. Moore of Alabama):
       H.R. 513. A bill to nullify certain Presidential 
     withdrawals of unleased offshore land, amend the Outer 
     Continental Shelf Lands Act to establish limits on the 
     authority of the President to withdraw unleased offshore 
     land, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. HINSON (for herself and Mr. Golden of Maine):
       H.R. 514. A bill to establish a competitive bidding process 
     for the relocation of the headquarters of Executive agencies, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACOBS (for herself and Mr. Sorensen):
       H.R. 515. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     prohibit discrimination in the Armed Forces; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Thompson of California):
       H.R. 516. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the railroad track maintenance credit; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KUSTOFF (for himself and Ms. Chu):
       H.R. 517. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the rules for postponing certain deadlines by 
     reason of disaster; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LaLOTA:
       H.R. 518. A bill to withhold the pay of Members of Congress 
     in certain cases, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.
           By Mr. LANGWORTHY (for himself, Ms. Houlahan, Mr. 
             Lawler, Mr. Davis of North Carolina, Ms. Craig, and 
             Mr. Guest):
       H.R. 519. A bill to require the Inspector General to submit 
     a report on the Federal subaward reporting system, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. LUTTRELL (for himself, Mr. Deluzio, Mr. 
             Crenshaw, Mr. Ellzey, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Garbarino, Mr. 
             Ciscomani, Mr. Stauber, Mr. Strong, Mr. Lawler, Ms. 
             Mace, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Collins, Mr. Weber of Texas, Ms. 
             Salazar, Mrs. Miller-Meeks, Mr. Guest, and Mr. 
             Suozzi):
       H.R. 520. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to include an additional permissible 
     use of amounts provided as grants under the Byrne JAG 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. MALOY (for herself, Mr. Amodei of Nevada, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Moore of Utah, Mr. Begich, 
             Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Stauber, Mrs. Fischbach, Mr. Estes, 
             Mr. Owens, Mr. Kennedy of Utah, and Mr. Fong):
       H.R. 521. A bill to reserve to Congress the authority to 
     establish or extend a national monument; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MANN (for himself, Mr. Schmidt, and Mr. Babin):
       H.R. 522. A bill to ensure equal treatment for certain 
     faith-based organizations in certain Small Business 
     Administration programs; to the Committee on Small Business.

[[Page H220]]

  

           By Mr. MILLER of Ohio (for himself, Mr. Feenstra, Mr. 
             Smith of Nebraska, Mr. LaHood, Mrs. Miller of West 
             Virginia, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Estes, Ms. Van Duyne, Mr. 
             Kustoff, Mr. Finstad, and Mr. Calvert):
       H.R. 523. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to permanently increase the standard deduction; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. MOOLENAAR (for himself, Mr. LaHood, Mr. Golden 
             of Maine, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Walberg, Mr. 
             Barrett, Mr. James, Mr. Bost, Ms. Malliotakis, Ms. 
             Tenney, Mr. Cline, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Rouzer, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Allen, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. 
             Finstad, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Dunn of Florida, Mr. 
             Gimenez, Mr. Ellzey, and Mr. Palmer):
       H.R. 524. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to deny certain green energy tax benefits to companies 
     connected to certain countries of concern; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. OGLES (for himself and Ms. Salazar):
       H.R. 525. A bill to prohibit funding to the Government of 
     the Republic of Honduras; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. OGLES (for himself, Mr. Pfluger, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, Mr. Brecheen, Ms. Hageman, Ms. Maloy, and Mr. 
             Williams of Texas):
       H.R. 526. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to make 
     certain adjustments to the royalty rates for leases for oil 
     and gas extraction on Federal land, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. PETTERSEN (for herself and Mr. Obernolte):
       H.R. 527. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior, 
     acting through the Director of the United States Geological 
     Survey, to establish a grant program for monitoring wildfires 
     by satellite; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. PETTERSEN (for herself and Mr. Edwards):
       H.R. 528. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior 
     to carry out a program for post-disaster reforestation and 
     restoration Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. PFLUGER (for himself, Mr. Babin, and Ms. 
             Tenney):
       H.R. 529. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 
     to establish deadlines for States to count the ballots cast 
     in elections for Federal office and to certify the results of 
     such elections, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.
           By Mr. PFLUGER (for himself, Mr. Panetta, Mrs. Miller-
             Meeks, Mr. Ryan, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Ellzey, Mr. Davis of North Carolina, Ms. Van Duyne, 
             Mr. Valadao, Mr. Webster of Florida, Ms. Lee of 
             Nevada, Mr. Simpson, and Mr. Scott Franklin of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 530. A bill to provide for a study by the National 
     Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine on the 
     prevalence and mortality of cancer among individuals who 
     served as active duty aircrew in the Armed Forces, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN (for herself and Mr. Case):
       H.R. 531. A bill to amend the South Pacific Tuna Act of 
     1988, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. RASKIN (for himself and Mrs. Hayes):
       H.R. 532. A bill to authorize for a grant program for 
     handgun licensing programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROSE (for himself and Mr. Ogles):
       H.R. 533. A bill to make reforms to the Bank Secrecy Act, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. ROUZER (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Pfluger, 
             Mr. Nehls, Mr. Meuser, Mr. Fleischmann, and Ms. 
             Tenney):
       H.R. 534. A bill to authorize certain States to take 
     certain actions on certain Federal land to secure an 
     international border of the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SCANLON (for herself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Tlaib, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Balint, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Carson, Ms. Crockett, Ms. 
             Ocasio-Cortez, and Mr. Morelle):
       H.R. 535. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act 
     of 1971 to prohibit certain donations to Inaugural 
     Committees, to establish limitations on donations to 
     Inaugural Committees, to require certain reporting by 
     Inaugural Committees, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SCHOLTEN (for herself and Mr. Valadao):
       H.R. 536. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to extend the energy credit for qualified biogas property; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. SHERRILL:
       H.R. 537. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide tax credits for the conversion of commercial 
     buildings to residential units, to provide support and 
     technical assistance to State and local housing agencies to 
     identify and advance housing conversion opportunities for 
     underutilized commercial buildings, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (for himself and Ms. Sewell):
       H.R. 538. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to remove the 96-hour physician certification 
     requirement for inpatient critical access hospital services; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. STEUBE (for himself, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Smith of Nebraska, Mr. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Van Duyne, and Mr. Davis of North Carolina):
       H.R. 539. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide Medicare coverage for all physicians' 
     services furnished by doctors of chiropractic within the 
     scope of their license, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. TORRES of California (for herself and Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 540. A bill to require the Director of the Office of 
     Management and Budget to review and make certain revisions to 
     the Standard Occupational Classification System, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and Workforce.
           By Mr. TORRES of New York:
       H.R. 541. A bill to require the Department of Defense to 
     share best practices with, and offer training to, State and 
     local first responders regarding how to most effectively aid 
     victims who experience trauma-related injuries; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. TORRES of New York (for himself and Mr. 
             Garbarino):
       H.R. 542. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to prohibit institutions of higher education from receiving 
     gifts from certain countries, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and Workforce.
           By Mr. TORRES of New York:
       H.R. 543. A bill to direct the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
     Firearms, and Explosives to report on firearms trafficking 
     along the I-95 corridor; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TORRES of New York:
       H.R. 544. A bill to provide a private right of action 
     against the maker of any component of a ghost gun, and any 
     person who facilitated a sale of the ghost gun, for injury or 
     death resulting from the use of the ghost gun; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TORRES of New York:
       H.R. 545. A bill to direct the Attorney General to conduct 
     a study on the efficacy of extreme risk protection orders on 
     reducing gun violence, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TORRES of New York:
       H.R. 546. A bill to direct the Attorney General to 
     establish a grant program for civilian traffic violation 
     enforcement; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. VAN DREW (for himself, Mr. Crane, Ms. Hageman, 
             Mr. Biggs of Arizona, Mr. Nehls, Mr. Sessions, Mr. 
             Begich, Mr. Rose, Mr. Ogles, and Mr. Issa):
       H.R. 547. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to require an individual to provide a social security number 
     to claim the child tax credit; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. VAN DUYNE (for herself, Mr. Crenshaw, and Mr. 
             Meuser):
       H.R. 548. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modernize health savings accounts; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Ms. VAN DUYNE:
       H.R. 549. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal the clean fuel production credit; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. WATERS (for herself and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 550. A bill to require the Government Accountability 
     Office to conduct a study regarding insurance coverage for 
     damages from wildfires, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas (for himself, Mr. Gimenez, Mr. 
             Gill of Texas, Mr. Hamadeh of Arizona, Mr. Ellzey,

[[Page H221]]

             Ms. Van Duyne, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Owens, Ms. Tenney, 
             Mr. Weber of Texas, Mrs. Houchin, Mr. Self, Mr. Wied, 
             Mr. Nehls, Mr. Brecheen, Mr. Perry, Mr. Hunt, Mr. 
             McCormick, Mr. Balderson, Mr. Ogles, Mr. Lawler, Mr. 
             Rogers of Kentucky, Mr. Yakym, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. 
             Harris of Maryland, Mr. Babin, Mr. Fallon, Ms. Foxx, 
             Mr. Finstad, Ms. Perez, Mr. Alford, Mr. Moore of 
             Alabama, and Mr. Schmidt):
       H.R. 551. A bill to amend section 235(b)(2)(C) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act to require the implementation 
     of the Migrant Protection Protocols; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. WITTMAN:
       H.R. 552. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program to promote and encourage 
     collaboration between the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
     nonprofit organizations and institutions of higher learning 
     that provide administrative assistance to veterans; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself and Mr. Case):
       H.R. 553. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a 
     patient outreach system relating to mental health care, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WITTMAN:
       H.R. 554. A bill to improve the provision of health care by 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WITTMAN:
       H.R. 555. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     include a single comprehensive disability examination as part 
     of the required Department of Defense physical examination 
     for separating members of the Armed Forces, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself, Mr. McGuire, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Ms. De La Cruz, 
             Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Bean of Florida, Ms. Tenney, Mr. 
             Calvert, Mr. Zinke, Mr. Stauber, Mr. Edwards, Mr. 
             Norman, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Guest, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, 
             Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Finstad, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Newhouse, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Moore of Alabama, Mr. 
             Biggs of Arizona, Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia, Mr. 
             Fulcher, Mr. Bost, Mr. Hudson, Ms. Hageman, Ms. 
             Boebert, Mr. Cline, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. 
             Tiffany, Mr. Williams of Texas, Mr. Bergman, Mr. 
             Balderson, Mr. Messmer, Mrs. Fischbach, Mr. 
             Fitzgerald, Ms. Letlow, and Mr. Fleischmann):
       H.R. 556. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of the Interior 
     and the Secretary of Agriculture from prohibiting the use of 
     lead ammunition or tackle on certain Federal land or water 
     under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior and 
     the Secretary of Agriculture, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. ARRINGTON (for himself, Mr. Self, and Mr. Moore 
             of West Virginia):
       H.J. Res. 21. A joint resolution disapproving of the rule 
     submitted by the Department of Homeland Security relating to 
     ``Modernizing H-2 Program Requirements, Oversight, and Worker 
     Protections''; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ARRINGTON (for himself, Mr. Self, and Mr. Moore 
             of West Virginia):
       H.J. Res. 22. A joint resolution disapproving of the rule 
     submitted by the Department of Homeland Security relating to 
     ``Modernizing H-1B Requirements, Providing Flexibility in the 
     F-1 Program, and Program Improvements Affecting Other 
     Nonimmigrant Workers''; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ARRINGTON (for himself, Mr. Self, and Mr. Moore 
             of West Virginia):
       H.J. Res. 23. A joint resolution disapproving of the rule 
     submitted by the Department of Homeland Security relating to 
     ``Increase of the Automatic Extension Period of Employment 
     Authorization and Documentation for Certain Employment 
     Authorization Document Renewal Applicants''; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. BICE (for herself, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Rulli, Mr. 
             Clyde, Mr. Perry, and Mr. Palmer):
       H.J. Res. 24. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of 
     Energy relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy 
     Conservation Standards for Walk-In Coolers and Walk-In 
     Freezers''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. BROWN (for herself, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Green of 
             Texas, Ms. Adams, Mr. Bera, Mr. Carson, Mr. Thompson 
             of Mississippi, Mr. Goldman of New York, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. Ramirez, Ms. Titus, Mr. Evans 
             of Pennsylvania, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Sykes, Mr. Mrvan, 
             Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Amo, Mr. Ivey, Ms. Meng, 
             Mr. Landsman, Ms. Stevens, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Mrs. Hayes, Ms. Bynum, Ms. McClellan, Ms. Tokuda, Mr. 
             Panetta, Mr. Jackson of Illinois, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. 
             Kamlager-Dove, Mr. Mullin, Mrs. McIver, Mrs. 
             Fletcher, Mrs. McBath, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Scanlon, Mr. 
             Frost, Ms. Williams of Georgia, Ms. Tlaib, Mr. 
             Bishop, Mrs. Cherfilus-McCormick, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. 
             Horsford, Mr. Turner of Texas, Mr. Kennedy of New 
             York, Mrs. Foushee, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Ms. Lee of Pennsylvania, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Mr. Torres of New York, Ms. Sewell, Mr. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Fields, Mr. Mfume, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Strickland, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
             Clyburn, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Carter of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Hernandez, and Ms. Jacobs):
       H. Res. 48. A resolution honoring Reverend Dr. Martin 
     Luther King, Jr., by celebrating diversity, promoting 
     tolerance, and condemning hate; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. CAMMACK (for herself, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, 
             Mr. Bost, Ms. Malliotakis, Ms. Hageman, Mr. Babin, 
             Mr. Miller of Ohio, Mr. Collins, Mrs. Luna, Ms. Lee 
             of Florida, Mr. Van Orden, Mr. Langworthy, and Mrs. 
             Bice):
       H. Res. 49. A resolution prohibiting Members of the House 
     of Representatives from bringing or displaying a flag of a 
     foreign nation on the floor of the House, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. ARRINGTON (for himself, Mr. Self, Mr. Ellzey, 
             Mr. Weber of Texas, Ms. Van Duyne, Mr. Fallon, Mr. 
             Nehls, Mr. Moran, Mr. Babin, Mr. Williams of Texas, 
             Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Gooden, Ms. De La Cruz, Mr. 
             Luttrell, Mr. Jackson of Texas, Mr. Tony Gonzales of 
             Texas, and Mr. McCaul):
       H. Res. 50. A resolution recognizing that article I, 
     section 10 of the United States Constitution explicitly 
     reserves to the States the sovereign power to repel an 
     invasion and defend their citizenry from the overwhelming and 
     ``imminent danger'' posed by paramilitary, narco-terrorist 
     cartels, terrorists and criminal actors who seized control of 
     our southern border; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE (for herself, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mrs. Sykes, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Williams of Georgia, Ms. 
             McClellan, Ms. Adams, Mr. Bishop, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. 
             Carter of Louisiana, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Carson, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Frost, Mr. Jackson of 
             Illinois, Ms. Norton, Ms. Clarke of New York, and Ms. 
             Tlaib):
       H. Res. 51. A resolution honoring Zeta Phi Beta Sorority, 
     Inc., on reaching the historic milestone of 105 years of 
     scholarship, service, sisterhood, and finer womanhood; to the 
     Committee on Education and Workforce.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for herself, Ms. Tlaib, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Norton, Mrs. McIver, 
             Mr. Quigley, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Mullin, Ms. 
             Titus, Mr. Evans of Pennsylvania, Ms. Sewell, Mrs. 
             Hayes, Mr. Moskowitz, Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Doggett, Mrs. Ramirez, Mr. 
             Pallone, Mr. Swalwell, and Mr. Carson):
       H. Res. 52. A resolution recognizing and honoring the work 
     of community organizations and individuals who create and 
     maintain services and educational programs for marginalized 
     groups ensuring the resilience and prosperity of members of 
     the LGBTQIA+ community; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________

