[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 13 (Wednesday, January 22, 2025)]
[House]
[Pages H262-H263]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                BEGINNING A NEW ERA IN AMERICAN HISTORY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Iowa (Mrs. Miller-Meeks) for 5 minutes.
  Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, it is a new era in American history.
  I congratulate President Donald Trump and Senator, now-Vice President 
J.D. Vance on their inauguration. This is the beginning of a golden age 
where we will secure our borders, lower prices, unleash American 
energy, and drain the D.C. swamp.
  Under President Trump's leadership, we will restore safety by 
securing our borders and putting American citizens first--no more open 
borders or out-of-control illegal immigration. We will cut the costs 
that are crushing families across this Nation and especially in Iowa. 
By unleashing American energy, we will lower gas prices and, 
subsequently, food prices and reduce our dependency on foreign energy.
  Let's be clear. We are here to drain the D.C. swamp. It is time to 
root out waste, inefficiency, and corruption that has held this Nation 
back for too long.
  I pray for their success and that God blesses their leadership and 
guides their efforts to make America stronger, safer, and more 
prosperous for everyone than ever before.
  I also wish President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump a wonderful 
and happy 20th anniversary.

                              {time}  1015


                       Celebrating Clara Petersen

  Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate a 
remarkable woman from West Branch, Iowa, Clara Petersen, who recently 
turned 100 years old.
  While this milestone is extraordinary on its own, Clara's life and 
legacy are made even more remarkable by her service to our country 
during World

[[Page H263]]

War II. She proudly served in the Coast Guard, and the Iowa City VA 
Healthcare System honored her with a plaque to recognize her incredible 
dedication.
  Clara's humble spirit and sense of humor shine through as she fondly 
recalls her time in service, joking that she joined in 1945 to help get 
that darn war over with.
  As she, herself, will tell you, her greatest achievements are not in 
her service but in the joys of family, getting married, raising 
children, and cherishing a family she calls the greatest in the world.
  Clara's century of life is a testament to the strength and heart of 
our Nation. We are grateful for her service and her example.


                     Supporting the Most Vulnerable

  Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to reaffirm my 
unwavering commitment to protecting life and supporting both mothers 
and babies. Every life is precious, and it is our responsibility to 
defend the most vulnerable among us.
  As a mother, a doctor, and a Member of Congress, I have always been 
dedicated to ensuring that children have the opportunity to grow, 
thrive, and fulfill their potential.
  I am proud to share that I earned an A+ on the Susan B. Anthony Pro-
Life America National Pro-Life Scorecard for the 118th Congress. This 
score reflects my consistent pro-life voting record, cosponsorship, and 
efforts to protect the sanctity of life.
  This week, people from all around the country are coming to 
Washington, D.C., to celebrate life and advocate for those who cannot 
speak for themselves.
  In addition to defending life, we must ensure that mothers have the 
support and resources they need to make the best choices for themselves 
and their children.
  Mr. Speaker, today I wish a happy 15th birthday to my best buddy and 
nephew, Andrew Martino. I hope he has a wonderful day.

                          ____________________

