[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 7 (Tuesday, January 14, 2025)]
[Senate]
[Page S129]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          CABINET NOMINATIONS

  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the Senate's 
confirmation process because today Senate committees are beginning 
their hearings, starting to hear from the nominees from President-elect 
Donald Trump--qualified nominees.
  We are going to hear from many of the nominees this week, and I just 
heard the minority leader talk about what is happening today because at 
this very moment, Pete Hegseth is testifying--testifying in the Armed 
Services Committee. He is the President's nominee to be the Secretary 
of Defense.
  I have been following these hearings closely. Pete Hegseth is giving 
strong answers to tough questions. He is confident, he is 
knowledgeable, and he should be confirmed quickly. We have a 
significant problem in our military with morale and with recruitment, 
and Pete Hegseth is the right person to address those issues of 
military readiness.
  The incoming administration is ready to act--ready to act and deliver 
on the historic mandate that President Trump won in November. His 
victory in the electoral college and the popular vote gives him a 
mandate--a mandate to undo the damage of the current administration and 
to unleash new American prosperity.
  President Trump understands the old saying that personnel is policy. 
That is why he nominated his entire Cabinet before Thanksgiving. And it 
is a strong team. Doug Burgum, Chris Wright, and Lee Zeldin will take 
the handcuffs off of American energy. Marco Rubio and Pete Hegseth and 
John Ratcliffe will restore American strength. No more weakness from 
America on the world stage. Scott Bessent will stop the $4 trillion tax 
increase. Pam Bondi will stop the weaponization of the Justice 
Department, and she will actually enforce the law. Kristi Noem will 
make sure the border is secure.
  These nominees are not a return to business as usual. Business as 
usual gave us painfully high prices. Business as usual gave us wide-
open borders. Business as usual gave us the disastrous death of 
soldiers and the fall of Afghanistan.
  These nominees by President Trump are bold choices. They are 
motivated, they are skilled, and they are committed to the safety and 
security of every American. Most importantly, they show that President 
Trump is serious--serious about bringing fresh eyes and a new outlook 
to Washington, DC. That is exactly what the American people voted for 
in November.
  Senate Republicans are committed to getting President Trump's team in 
place quickly.
  Our committee chairs are working aggressively to give each nominee a 
fair and speedy consideration. That is how the Senate has operated 
historically, especially when faced with such a mandate from the 
American people.
  In 2009, the President coming into office, Obama, had seven Cabinet 
nominees confirmed on his very first day in office. Within 8 days of 
taking office, he had 14 nominees confirmed. All but five of his 
nominees in 2009 were confirmed by voice vote. President Trump deserves 
the same deference.
  It is interesting to me to hear the Democrat leader talk about 
Republicans rushing the process this year. Well, 4 years ago, Senator 
Schumer pledged to hold hearings right away, he said, for President 
Biden's nominees. He pledged to hold votes on Inauguration Day. He 
said: It is ``traditional for a new President.''
  Well, I believe Senator Schumer was right to move quickly, but now 
that the shoe is on the other foot, Democrats should work in good faith 
with us, with the Republicans, to uphold that tradition for President 
Trump.
  I have my doubts. The Democrat leader reportedly told his caucus to 
create fireworks at this week's hearings of our nominees. Well, we have 
seen Democrat obstruction before. Due to Senate Democrat obstruction, 
President Trump had only five nominees confirmed in January during his 
first term. We saw obstruction for the sake of obstruction.
  Americans now have chosen a new direction. They chose this President, 
and the President's victory was decisive.
  Elections have consequences, and the Presiding Officer and I know 
that. This week, the U.S. Senate is engaging in our constitutional duty 
of advice and consent.
  Advice and consent means to deliberate, to debate. It means giving 
advice to the nominees, and we are doing that and have done it. But it 
is no excuse to distract and delay or to slander and then to try to 
search and destroy.
  The Senate is going to follow the mandate of the American people and 
confirm President Trump's strong nominees. We will do it swiftly. We 
are committed to working around the clock, including nights and 
weekends, if Democrats choose to deliberately delay. With this 
majority, with our new President-elect, we will deliver a new direction 
for America.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The Senator from Illinois.

                          ____________________

