[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 3 (Tuesday, January 7, 2025)]
[House]
[Pages H53-H61]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            LAKEN RILEY ACT

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 5, I call 
up the bill (H.R. 29) to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to 
take into custody aliens who have been charged in the United States 
with theft, and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate 
consideration in the House.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Rulli). Pursuant to House Resolution 5, 
the bill is considered read.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 29

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Laken Riley Act''.

     SEC. 2. DETENTION OF CERTAIN ALIENS WHO COMMIT THEFT.

       Section 236(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
     U.S.C. 1226(c)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``or'';
       (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the comma at the end 
     and inserting ``, or''; and
       (C) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:
       ``(E)(i) is inadmissible under paragraph (6)(A), (6)(C), or 
     (7) of section 212(a), and
       ``(ii) is charged with, is arrested for, is convicted of, 
     admits having committed, or admits committing acts which 
     constitute the essential elements of any burglary, theft, 
     larceny, or shoplifting offense,'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (4); and
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
       ``(2) Definition.--For purposes of paragraph (1)(E), the 
     terms `burglary', `theft', `larceny', and `shoplifting' have 
     the meaning given such terms in the jurisdiction where the 
     acts occurred.
       ``(3) Detainer.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
     issue a detainer for an alien described in paragraph (1)(E) 
     and, if the alien is not otherwise detained by Federal, 
     State, or local officials, shall effectively and 
     expeditiously take custody of the alien.''.

     SEC. 3. ENFORCEMENT BY ATTORNEY GENERAL OF A STATE.

       (a) Inspection of Applicants for Admission.--Section 235(b) 
     of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1225(b)) is 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
       ``(3) Enforcement by attorney general of a state.--The 
     attorney general of a State, or other authorized State 
     officer, alleging a violation of the detention and removal 
     requirements under paragraphs (1) or (2) that harms such 
     State or its residents shall have standing to bring an action 
     against the Secretary of Homeland Security on behalf of such 
     State or the residents of such State in an appropriate 
     district court of the United States to obtain appropriate 
     injunctive relief. The court shall advance on the docket and 
     expedite the disposition of a civil action filed under this 
     paragraph to the greatest extent practicable. For purposes of 
     this paragraph, a State or its residents shall be considered 
     to have been harmed if the State or its residents experience 
     harm, including financial harm in excess of $100.''.
       (b) Apprehension and Detention of Aliens.--Section 236 of 
     the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1226), as 
     amended by this Act, is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (e)--
       (A) by striking ``or release''; and
       (B) by striking ``grant, revocation, or denial'' and insert 
     ``revocation or denial''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(f) Enforcement by Attorney General of a State.--The 
     attorney general of a State, or other authorized State 
     officer, alleging an action or decision by the Attorney 
     General or Secretary of Homeland Security under this section 
     to release any alien or grant bond or parole to any alien 
     that harms such State or its residents shall have standing to 
     bring an action against the Attorney General or Secretary of 
     Homeland Security on behalf of such State or the residents of 
     such State in an appropriate district court of the United 
     States to obtain appropriate injunctive relief. The court 
     shall advance on

[[Page H54]]

     the docket and expedite the disposition of a civil action 
     filed under this subsection to the greatest extent 
     practicable. For purposes of this subsection, a State or its 
     residents shall be considered to have been harmed if the 
     State or its residents experience harm, including financial 
     harm in excess of $100.''.
       (c) Penalties.--Section 243 of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1253) is amended by adding at the 
     end the following:
       ``(e) Enforcement by Attorney General of a State.--The 
     attorney general of a State, or other authorized State 
     officer, alleging a violation of the requirement to 
     discontinue granting visas to citizens, subjects, nationals, 
     and residents as described in subsection (d) that harms such 
     State or its residents shall have standing to bring an action 
     against the Secretary of State on behalf of such State or the 
     residents of such State in an appropriate district court of 
     the United States to obtain appropriate injunctive relief. 
     The court shall advance on the docket and expedite the 
     disposition of a civil action filed under this subsection to 
     the greatest extent practicable. For purposes of this 
     subsection, a State or its residents shall be considered to 
     have been harmed if the State or its residents experience 
     harm, including financial harm in excess of $100.''.
       (d) Certain Classes of Aliens.--Section 212(d)(5) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``Attorney General'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``Secretary of Homeland Security''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) The attorney general of a State, or other authorized 
     State officer, alleging a violation of the limitation under 
     subparagraph (A) that parole solely be granted on a case-by-
     case basis and solely for urgent humanitarian reasons or a 
     significant public benefit, that harms such State or its 
     residents shall have standing to bring an action against the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security on behalf of such State or the 
     residents of such State in an appropriate district court of 
     the United States to obtain appropriate injunctive relief. 
     The court shall advance on the docket and expedite the 
     disposition of a civil action filed under this subparagraph 
     to the greatest extent practicable. For purposes of this 
     subparagraph, a State or its residents shall be considered to 
     have been harmed if the State or its residents experience 
     harm, including financial harm in excess of $100.''.
       (e) Detention.--Section 241(a)(2) of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(a)(2)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``During the removal period,'' and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(A) In general.--During the removal period,''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(B) Enforcement by attorney general of a state.--The 
     attorney general of a State, or other authorized State 
     officer, alleging a violation of the detention requirement 
     under subparagraph (A) that harms such State or its residents 
     shall have standing to bring an action against the Secretary 
     of Homeland Security on behalf of such State or the residents 
     of such State in an appropriate district court of the United 
     States to obtain appropriate injunctive relief. The court 
     shall advance on the docket and expedite the disposition of a 
     civil action filed under this subparagraph to the greatest 
     extent practicable. For purposes of this subparagraph, a 
     State or its residents shall be considered to have been 
     harmed if the State or its residents experience harm, 
     including financial harm in excess of $100.''.
       (f) Limit on Injunctive Relief.--Section 242(f) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1252(f)) is amended 
     by adding at the end following:
       ``(3) Certain actions.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to an 
     action brought pursuant to section 235(b)(3), subsections (e) 
     or (f) of section 236, or section 241(a)(2)(B).''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill shall be debatable for 1 hour, 
equally divided and controlled by the majority leader and the minority 
leader, or their respective designees.
  The gentleman from California (Mr. McClintock) and the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Raskin) each will control 30 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California (Mr. McClintock).


                             General Leave

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous material on H.R. 29.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, the brutal murder of Laken Riley was foreordained the 
day Joe Biden took office and reversed the successful Trump policies 
that had finally secured our borders.
  Since that day just 4 years ago, more than 7.8 million illegal aliens 
have been deliberately allowed into our country--a population the size 
of the State of Washington, our 13th largest State.
  Very little is done to vet these millions of illegal migrants. We 
don't know how many terrorists and violent criminals are among them, 
and worse, the Democrats don't seem to care.
  We know that the number of terrorists we are apprehending has 
skyrocketed and that violent international crime cartels and violent 
foreign gangs are now operating freely in our communities, often 
protected from deportation and detention by the Democrats' sanctuary 
laws.
  One of these criminals has now been convicted of the brutal murder of 
Laken Riley. How many such monsters have the Democrats deliberately 
allowed into our country we do not know, but we are slowly, painfully, 
and tragically finding out victim by victim.
  In this case, the murderer was paroled into this country through a 
shocking abuse of this power by the Biden administration. He was 
repeatedly arrested for theft and other crimes in sanctuary 
jurisdictions and each time released back onto our streets.
  Just months before Laken Riley's murder, this murderer was arrested 
for theft, but he was released. ICE did not take him into custody 
because of a Biden administration policy that shields many criminal 
aliens from arrest and deportation.
  Sadly, this is exactly what those who voted for Joe Biden in 2020 
voted for because this is exactly what the Democrats promised to do.
  Fortunately, those who voted for Donald Trump in 2024 voted to stop 
this tragic travesty of our immigration laws because that is what he 
has promised to do and will begin doing over the Democrats' objections 
beginning at noon on January 20.
  During his first term, President Trump proved that the President on 
his own authority can secure our borders. President Biden proved that a 
President determined to undermine and make a mockery of our immigration 
laws can willfully open those borders to the most violent criminals, 
terrorists, gangs, and cartels on this planet and use the Democrats' 
sanctuary laws to protect them.
  This national nightmare will end at noon on Inauguration Day, but 
what of future Presidents?
  The Laken Riley Act would require ICE detention for illegal aliens 
who are charged with, arrested for, or convicted of any burglary, 
theft, larceny, or shoplifting offense.
  H.R. 29 further requires the Department of Homeland Security to issue 
a detainer for those illegal aliens and take custody of them 
effectively and expeditiously. It would also allow States to bring a 
civil action against derelict Federal officials who refuse to enforce 
these laws.
  Joe Biden and Alejandro Mayorkas, I am looking at you.
  This bill passed the Republican House in March of last year, but 
Senate Democrats stopped it cold. I said at the time that, today, the 
name on the bill is Laken Riley. Tomorrow, it will be another victim of 
these policies, another son, daughter, or loved one.
  It won't stop until this administration is stopped, and that can only 
be done by the American people. Thank God, the American people have 
done exactly that. They have given this Congress and this President the 
tools and mandate to secure our borders and remove every person who has 
broken into our country by violating our laws.
  Without this law, a future Democratic President could once again 
release dangerous illegal aliens back onto our streets to prey on our 
people and destroy innocent lives like Laken Riley's. This bill would 
stop them.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to address their 
remarks to the Chair.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, the Biden administration brought us back from a 
devastating pandemic and the Trump economic crisis by investing in 
American workers, American manufacturing, and American infrastructure. 
Our policies for the working-class majority instead of the tiny 
rapacious billionaire class pulled our economy back from the brink.
  Today, our Nation's economic strength is ``the envy of the world,'' 
as The Economist magazine put it, with

[[Page H55]]

an unemployment rate of 4.2 percent, wages rising across America, and 
the gross domestic product growing at a robust 3.1 percent.
  Moreover, the murder rate is way down in America. Unlawful 
immigration at the southern border is now below where it was when 
Donald Trump left office 4 years ago. The roaring stock market, which 
is what Trump and his billionaire entourage care about, just completed 
its strongest 2 years in a quarter century.

  Now, it is time to make sure all Americans enjoy the benefits of this 
astonishing economic growth. We should be coming together today to 
increase the minimum wage, to lift children out of poverty, and to 
strengthen unions, Social Security, Medicare, and the middle class. 
Donald Trump is instead assembling a billionaire Cabinet from the top 
0.00003 percent of the wealthiest Americans, drawing the top tier of 
his new administration from poolside cocktail hour at Mar-a-Lago and 
setting up the broligarchs and the plutocrats to plunder an even larger 
share of government contracts and public resources.
  Trump campaigned on the seductive promise of bringing down the high 
post-COVID-19 prices for rent, groceries, consumer goods, and 
healthcare, but now he is preparing to give power over the economy to 
his team of globe-trotting, dictator-dealing CEOs and billionaires, the 
very people responsible for exploiting the pandemic to increase prices 
in the first place.
  I doubt the billionaire oligarchs have any interest in bringing down 
the cost of living for the working middle class in America, but if they 
do, Democrats stand ready to work with them. After all, we are the ones 
who dramatically lowered prescription drug prices in Medicare, capping 
out-of-pocket monthly expenses at $35 a month. I had constituents who 
were paying $500 a month for insulin as diabetics before that, and it 
is capped now at $35 a month. We capped annual total out-of-pocket 
expenditures for prescription drugs at $2,000 a year.
  It was the MAGA Republicans deep in the pocket of Big Pharma who 
categorically and vehemently opposed us every step of the way on 
lowering prescription drug prices in Medicare.
  If our colleagues now have good policy proposals for continuing to 
lower prices as we have done, which is what they campaigned on, by all 
means, bring the proposals forward. Let's see them.
  Democrats have repeatedly crossed the aisle to hammer out bipartisan 
compromise. Last year, President Biden and Senate Democrats worked with 
the ultraconservative Republican Senator James Lankford to arrive at a 
tough bipartisan border security deal, but President Trump aggressively 
tanked the deal, openly expressing his preference for rallying against 
a border crisis rather than actually developing a border solution.
  Now, today, the Republicans are on the floor but not with their long-
awaited, entirely missing policy solutions to the problems of inflation 
or immigration. Instead, their bill today is an empty and opportunistic 
measure. It is not, like the compromise they tanked in the last 
Congress, a bill for greater border security or better technology in 
the ports of entry, expanding legal pathways to immigration and 
citizenship for millions of people, or addressing huge immigrant visa 
backlogs. No, this bill would upend 28 years of mandatory immigration 
detention policy by requiring that any undocumented immigrant arrested 
for theft, larceny, or shoplifting be detained even if they are never 
convicted or even charged with a crime.
  This is a radical departure from current law, which since 1996 has 
generally required mandatory detention only for persons who are 
criminally convicted or who admit to having committed certain serious 
crimes--that is, when criminal guilt is certain and established beyond 
a reasonable doubt.

                              {time}  1130

  Under this bill, a person who has lived in the United States for 
decades, say for most of her life, paid taxes, and bought a home, but 
who is mistakenly arrested for shoplifting would not be free to resume 
her life. Rather, she would be detained and deported even if the 
charges are dropped and even if the police admit that the arrest was 
mistaken.
  Consider a young Dreamer or TPS recipient who is with a group of 
friends after school and someone in the group shoplifts, stealing a 
candy bar. To scare the whole group straight, everyone is arrested, 
whether they were involved in the shoplifting or not. However, nobody 
is charged, and the charges are dropped. For most of the kids, it is a 
humiliating afternoon and a valuable life lesson, but for one of them, 
a young person who has been in America lawfully for years with his or 
her family, the consequences would be devastating under this 
legislation--mandatory detention and deportation from the country just 
for having been arrested, even if never charged.
  It seems to me passing strange, Mr. Speaker, that our friends are 
taking this position when they do not even believe that the criminal 
justice system can be trusted when a jury unanimously convicts someone 
who has had the best legal representation money can buy in the State of 
New York on 34 different felony criminal counts after an extended 
criminal trial with all due process protections, including cross-
examination and the right to counsel being afforded.
  If the criminal justice process cannot be trusted to identify a truly 
guilty person even when that person has been arrested, charged, 
indicted, prosecuted, represented at every stage, given an opportunity 
to cross-examine all witnesses, and to testify personally, and then is 
unanimously convicted by a jury of his peers beyond a reasonable doubt, 
how can the criminal justice process be trusted to identify a truly 
guilty person just with an arrest and no indictment, no prosecution, no 
cross-examination, no neutral adjudication by an impartial judge, no 
fact-finding, and no criminal conviction by a 12-person jury beyond a 
reasonable doubt?
  Mandatory detention has always been reserved for people who are 
convicted of crimes and actually commit crimes. Expanding the detention 
requirement to include every person who has merely been accused of or 
arrested for, even if not charged for shoplifting, for example, 
collapses the distinction between actual conviction on serious events 
versus simply being charged with or arrested for something very minor 
even if the charges don't even lead anywhere.
  Congress has never even appropriated sufficient resources to detain 
all noncitizens who do fall under the currently serious mandatory 
detention categories. Even President Trump, during his first term, 
never tried to detain all migrants theoretically subject to mandatory 
detention. Therefore, this extremely elastic new provision adds nothing 
to the equation other than more empty rhetoric and greater bureaucratic 
bloat.
  The bill also seeks to give State governments authority and control 
over the Federal immigration system by trespassing on the Article II 
executive power in a way that eight out of nine Justices on the Supreme 
Court completely repudiated 2 years ago as a blatant violation of the 
separation of powers.
  The bill seeks to give State attorneys general precisely what the 
Supreme Court has denied: constitutional standing to sue the Federal 
Government in court for perceived violations of sections of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act so States can block Federal immigration 
policies, capsizing the Supremacy Clause and expanding judicial power 
to encroach upon executive discretion under Article II.
  In June of 2023, the Supreme Court in the United States v. Texas 
emphatically rejected the alleged standing of States to sue the Federal 
Government to alter the government's immigration arrest policies. This 
bill attempts a legislative bypass of this constitutional decision in 
U.S. v. Texas written by Justice Kavanaugh and joined by eight of nine 
Justices on the Court.
  In rejecting the States' standing argument, the Court observed, among 
other things, that lawsuits alleging insufficient arrests or 
prosecution run against the executive branch's exclusive Article II 
authority to enforce immigration law, which includes the discretion to 
determine enforcement priorities in the face of a chronic lack of 
resources and shifting public safety, public welfare, and foreign 
policy needs and priorities.

[[Page H56]]

  If this bill were to become law, both provisions would have the 
perverse effect of undermining the Federal Government's efforts to 
prioritize the detention and the deportation of the truly most 
dangerous convicted felons. With the vastly expanded new statutory 
scope and new authority for States to get legal standing on steroids, 
the government can be sued by a State for not detaining everyone 
charged with or not even arrested for the pettiest of crimes like 
shoplifting.
  This bill tries to give States standing to sue for harms as small as 
$100, dramatically shifting power from the executive branch to the 
courts and the Federal Government to the States, both in ways 
considered completely dubious by the Supreme Court.
  Like many of the immigration-related bills the GOP is now advancing, 
this one seems to follow a simple strategy: Pick a crime, paste into it 
a template immigration law covering convicted criminals, and then 
require detention or deportation of certain persons merely accused of 
committing the crime or arrested for committing the crime. No due 
process is required at all. This allows us to get up and demonize 
immigrants without doing anything to fix the immigration system and to 
act tough without actually making America safer or solving any of the 
problems within the immigration laws.
  We should be working together on comprehensive, meaningful reform. My 
colleague from California invites us to believe that the only crimes 
committed by undocumented aliens are those who entered during the Biden 
administration. Well, in fact, if you look at it, hundreds of 
thousands, 500,000 crossed the U.S.-Mexico border in the first Trump 
administration, and over 1.1 million people who crossed during the 
first 4 years of his administration were eventually released from 
custody.

  One of the people released from custody, an undocumented alien, is 
charged with murdering 19-year-old Adam Luker from Alabama. Why don't 
we have a bill named after Adam Luker? Is it because of the 
inconvenient fact that the undocumented alien who killed him came in 
under Donald Trump? I would hate to think so. However, we can find lots 
of cases like that.
  That is not what we should be doing here in Congress. We should be 
seriously confronting the problems in a serious way together rather 
than just trying to make partisan hay out of other people's tragedies 
in their lives.
  Mr. Speaker, this legislation does not move the ball forward on any 
of the problems facing America, and they are being moved under closed 
rules without a hearing, without any legislative scrutiny. This means 
that no Member--not only just Democrats, but Republicans, too, no 
Member--can offer any amendments to repair the gaping flaws and gaps in 
these slapdash political bills.
  I would urge our colleagues to take a much more serious approach 
here. The murder of Laken Riley was an unspeakable and appalling crime, 
a heinous act, and no parent, no family should ever have to bear such a 
calamity. We must take clear steps to make sure that people who commit 
crimes like this are punished to the full extent of the law. I trust 
that my friends agree that those who commit horrific, violent crimes 
like these must be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
  This bill fails to take any meaningful action to improve our broken 
immigration system and to prevent crimes like this from occurring 
again, whether the undocumented aliens entered under a Democratic 
administration, as they have, or a Republican administration, as they 
have. We are asked to vote on a bill that fails to address any of the 
real issues at stake, and we are foreclosed from offering any 
amendments to improve this sloppy and political product.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to oppose this legislation, and 
I reserve the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Fong). Members are reminded to refrain 
from engaging in personalities toward the President-elect.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  I want you to listen to what my friend just said, that we shouldn't 
be placing illegals in detention simply for being charged with a crime; 
and, besides, shoplifting is no big deal anyway.
  Listen to what he is actually suggesting. Current law requires the 
detention of every illegal alien who crosses our border. Every one.
  The Democrats have studiously ignored this law, and now they are 
saying ignore this law even if the illegal has now been charged with 
committing other crimes as well. Let them back onto the streets, as 
they did with Laken Riley's murderer. If a few innocent teens happen to 
get raped and murdered along the way, well, too bad.
  The Democrats have told us for 4 years that their refusal to enforce 
our immigration laws is because they are prioritizing more dangerous 
offenders. That is precisely what this bill does. It prioritizes 
dangerous offenders, and yet the Democrats are still opposing it.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
Collins), the author of this measure. Mr. Collins represents Laken 
Riley's hometown and her grieving family in this House.
  Mr. COLLINS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to encourage my colleagues to 
support the Laken Riley Act.
  Mr. Speaker, I think it is important that we record into history 
exactly what happened to this young lady.
  This young lady didn't have a care in the world. She was just out for 
a jog, enjoying the day, when an illegal criminal took her life away. 
He didn't even have any remorse. He never hesitated.
  This legislation could have prevented her death. Her murderer was in 
our country illegally and was a known criminal. He had abused a child 
in New York City and was flown to Athens, Georgia, a sanctuary city, 
all of this on the taxpayers' dime, where he was once again cited for 
shoplifting. Every part of our system failed Laken that day, and there 
is nothing we can do to bring her back.
  I will tell you what, we can make sure this never happens again. 
Right now, ICE is unable to detain and deport illegal criminals who 
commit these minor-level crimes, but the Laken Riley Act will fix this 
and give ICE and our local law enforcement the tools to get these 
criminals out of our country and make our communities safer.
  We need to get these people off the street. These criminals are 
getting bolder and bolder while our communities become more and more 
unsafe. Our lax policies gave her murderer the courage to kill Laken 
Riley. We have got to make sure that this doesn't ever happen again.
  Mr. Speaker, he bashed her head in with a rock. This is one of the 
most heinous crimes imaginable. People need to know what this animal 
did to her. I am going to tell you what, they also need to know how she 
fought back. Laken fought back with every ounce in her body. When I 
spoke to the family about this bill last year, I told them I would 
never let it go. I will fight with every ounce that I have to make sure 
that no family has to suffer a loss like they have to these illegal 
criminals.

  Mr. Speaker, it is a sad day in America, it is a sad day when we 
allow these thug criminals to invade our homes, our country, and impose 
their violence and their will on the American people. We have the 
opportunity today, we have the opportunity to fix this, and I encourage 
all my colleagues to join me in voting ``yes.''
  I will leave you with an excerpt from a statement made by Laken 
Riley's family:

       The Laken Riley Act has our full support because it would 
     help save innocent lives and prevent more families from going 
     through the kind of heartbreak we have experienced. Laken 
     would have been 23 on January 10. There is no greater gift 
     that could be given to her or our country than to continue 
     her legacy by saving lives through this bill. Every single 
     Member of Congress should be able to get behind this purely 
     commonsense bill that will make our country and communities 
     safer.

  Mr. Speaker, God help us. God help us.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from New York (Mr. Nadler).
  Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 29.
  I start by expressing my deepest condolences to Laken Riley's family. 
Her death was a tragedy, and we all mourn her loss. May her memory be a 
blessing.

                              {time}  1145

  I wish that we were considering legislation that was worthy of her 
name. Instead, the Republican majority is beginning this new Congress 
right where

[[Page H57]]

they left off in the last one, with legislation that targets and 
scapegoats immigrants, but does nothing to address the real problems in 
our broken immigration system, all while ignoring basic due process and 
constitutional principles.
  Among other things, this legislation would subject to mandatory 
detention any undocumented immigrants who are merely charged with 
committing an act of theft or shoplifting, even if they are innocent.
  This means if someone is merely accused of shoplifting, someone who 
might be innocent, who might be the victim of mistaken identity, and 
who has not had the opportunity to clear his name, would be subject to 
mandatory detention.
  This bill is so broad that it would lead to the detention of people 
who have committed no crime and have no intention of harming anyone. 
That flies in the face of all notions of basic due process and reason. 
It is both pernicious and absurd.
  Where will the Federal Government get the resources to detain all 
these people? Congress has never appropriated, and no administration 
has ever requested, sufficient resources to detain all noncitizens who 
fall under the mandatory detention categories. Even President Trump, 
during his first term, never tried to detain all migrants subject to 
mandatory detention. It was far too costly, even for him.
  Since this bill is so sweeping, even Dreamers and people living here 
on temporary protected status, people who may have lived in this 
country for decades and shortly after their birth, could be subject to 
the bill's harsh provisions.
  If that weren't bad enough, the bill also declares that States have 
standing to sue over certain immigration provisions so long as the 
State or its residents suffer even the most trivial financial harm. 
This appears to be a ham-handed attempt to circumvent recent Supreme 
Court rulings limiting States' standing to sue the Federal Government 
over immigration enforcement matters.
  Merely declaring that the States have standing to sue does not make 
it so. This provision is almost certainly unconstitutional. 
Unfortunately, the lack of attention that Republicans pay to such 
matters perfectly sums up their entire approach to immigration.
  Instead of working toward serious solutions to serious problems, they 
are content to simply play politics and consider it a job well done. I 
urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Arizona (Mr. Biggs), who has done work on our subcommittee on this 
issue.
  Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, again, our hearts go out to the 
Laken Riley family. We think about them. This bill is named for Laken 
Riley, but it has an impact far greater.
  Once again, we must acknowledge that we can no longer take the famed 
empty words of sympathy from those across the aisle in the Biden-Harris 
administration because they refuse to do anything meaningful to stop 
the carnage or even slow down the border surge that has been going on.
  Illegal aliens who commit crimes must not be released into our 
communities. Our colleagues cannot even use the term of art that is in 
the statute: ``illegal alien.'' They cannot even use that. They 
conflate legal immigration with those who enter our country illegally. 
They call them undocumented immigrants. That is what they do.
  They don't ever stand up for the American people. Instead of taking 
the mandate of an overwhelming popular vote victory and electoral 
college victory by this incoming President Donald Trump on the issue of 
border security, they let it go. They ignore it.
  In fact, places like San Diego--you know what San Diego just did? 
They declared themselves a super sanctuary city. Nobody is going to be 
held for ICE.
  You get to explain to the victim of Nicholas Jose Francisco, a 25-
year-old illegal alien from Guatemala, charged with molesting and 
raping a 5-year-old little girl. In New York City, there is more than 
58,000 illegal aliens with a criminal record who have been charged with 
a crime on their streets.
  You get to explain and apologize to the victim of the 31-year-old 
illegal alien from Mexico who was recently arrested for breaking into a 
woman's home and raping her. This goes on and on because my colleagues 
don't want to hold these people in detention.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Arizona.
  Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, you get to explain to the victim 
of the 28-year-old illegal alien who tortured and burglarized a Dallas 
woman just a month or two ago.
  You can stand up and say we are not bringing meaningful legislation. 
You can stand up and say that you feel real bad for Laken Riley and her 
family. How about all the other victims of illegal aliens who have 
committed crimes? You know the first thing they did that was illegal? 
They entered our country. Democrats want to protect them. Republicans 
want the law enforced.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, in fact, the Democrats got behind a 
bipartisan border security bill, which beefed up law enforcement at the 
border, which beefed up judges at the border, and that was tanked by 
Donald Trump and by Republicans in the House.
  They are the ones, Mr. Speaker, who refuse to engage in meaningful 
legislative work to get the job done here. Democrats won't be lectured 
by our colleague that we don't stand up for the American people.
  The author of this legislation actually yesterday sent out a tweet, a 
social media statement, characterizing the January 6 violent assault on 
this Chamber where 140 officers were wounded, injured, and hospitalized 
by a rampaging mob this way: ``On this day in history, 2021,'' said the 
gentleman, ``thousands of peaceful grandmothers gathered in Washington, 
D.C., to take a self-guided, albeit unauthorized, tour of the U.S. 
Capitol Building.'' I like that touch, ``albeit unauthorized.''

  ``Earlier that day, President Trump held a rally, where supporters 
walked to the Capitol to peacefully protest the certification of the 
2020 election. During this time, some individuals entered the Capitol, 
took photos, and explored the building before leaving.''
  Well, isn't that sweet. We see exactly how much faith and confidence 
they really have in the American criminal justice system and how much 
they really stand on the side of law enforcement. Yeah, it was a just a 
leisurely stroll by a bunch of peaceful grandmothers on January 6.
  These are the people that now are inviting us to dramatically change 
the immigration laws without even a hearing as to what it is going to 
mean in any particular case.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the distinguished gentlewoman from 
Washington (Ms. Jayapal).
  Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, Laken Riley was, by all accounts, a 
remarkable young woman, whose life was tragically cut short by a 
horrific act that should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law. 
My heart goes out to her family and loved ones who grieve her death.
  I understand, as a mother myself, fully why in the face of such 
senseless violence, especially against someone so young, there is an 
urge to do something, anything, to feel like you are actually helping 
to fix the problem.
  Unfortunately, this bill does nothing to fix the immigration system 
or to prevent future tragedies like this. It is simply an attempt to 
score cheap political points off of a tragic death, and in the process, 
it unfairly sweeps up many more innocent lives with no due process.
  Let us be clear: This is the Republican playbook over and over again. 
Scare people about immigrants, never propose anything that actually 
solves an outdated and arcane immigration system that desperately needs 
Congress to allocate resources and update legal pathways to make the 
immigration system work for everyone.
  My Republican colleagues simply want to preserve a broken immigration 
system as a campaign issue so that they can scapegoat and demonize 
immigrants all to distract the American people from their real goals of 
making working people pay for another Republican tax scam that benefits 
billionaires and the wealthiest.
  Just look at the rules package that they just passed. Out of the 12 
bills included in that, not a single one does anything to secure the 
border, to fix

[[Page H58]]

the broken immigration system, to lower costs for working people, to 
address the housing crisis, tackle the extraordinary levels of income 
inequality in this country, or tamp down on inflation.
  Those were the promises of the Trump campaign, but not a single one 
of those things is actually included in the first bills that they are 
bringing to the floor without hearings.
  Let's talk about what this bill actually does. This bill goes far 
beyond subjecting those who are convicted to or admit to committing a 
theft offense to mandatory detention. What this bill actually does is 
subject any undocumented immigrant to mandatory detention for merely 
being arrested or charged with committing an act of theft, larceny, or 
shoplifting, along with those who are convicted or who admit to 
committing such acts.
  Under this bill, a DACA or TPS recipient could be subjected to 
mandatory detention for crimes that are extremely low-level or for 
something that is not even a crime without even having had a fair day 
in court, without a conviction.
  Let's be clear, we are talking about people who have been in this 
country for decades. Many of us in Congress are parents. Imagine your 
child is with a group of kids grabbing an after-school snack at a 7-
Eleven and one of them chooses to just snitch a little candy bar off 
the shelf.
  The shop owner calls the police, and all the kids are arrested for 
shoplifting. If your child is a DACA recipient, someone who has lived 
here nearly their entire life, they are now subject to mandatory 
detention under this bill.
  Unfortunately, there are countless real-life examples of people 
getting wrongfully arrested for crimes that they didn't commit. In 
2019, a man in New Jersey was arrested for shoplifting and trying to 
hit a police officer with a car because facial recognition software 
falsely identified him as the perpetrator.
  He spent 10 days in jail, even though he was actually 30 miles away 
from where the crime was committed. If he had been a DACA or a TPS 
recipient, and this bill had been enacted, he would be subject to 
mandatory immigration detention even though he was innocent of the 
crime of which he was accused.
  People deserve to have their day in court and are innocent until 
proven guilty. That seems to be something that the majority has 
forgotten or doesn't seem to care about unless the alleged criminal is 
the President-elect.
  The upcoming administration is poised to bring back their no-priority 
immigration enforcement priority guidelines in which a convicted 
murderer would be the same priority for deportation as an undocumented 
mom who has been living in this country for 20 years.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman from Washington.
  Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, imagine how much money a sweeping mandatory 
detention proposal like this will cost the Federal Government at a time 
when Republicans are talking a big game about cutting budgets, but not 
this one. Why? Because this is a great boon to those for-profit 
detention companies who make enormous profits for mandatory detention 
when there are far more effective and cheaper ways to address the 
issue.
  Who pays for all this? The taxpayers. Even in a Republican trifecta, 
ICE has limited resources to detain and remove folks. However, in this 
bill, like President Trump's enforcement priorities, we seek to use 
those resources on people who committed low-level crimes or even no 
crime at all. That makes no one safer and costs a lot of money.

  Finally, this bill also bizarrely attempts to give State attorneys 
general the authority to try and stop the administrations from carrying 
out important policy priorities by giving them standing to sue in 
Federal court under various sections of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act. That entire section of the bill, likely unconstitutional.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this overly 
broad, deeply flawed legislation.
  THE SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President-elect.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Van Orden).
  Mr. VAN ORDEN. Mr. Speaker, this bill is going to go a long way to 
reverse the lawlessness of the Biden-Harris administration. I will tell 
you a story for a moment.
  A criminal illegal alien entered the country with known gang tattoos 
and was allowed through Biden's porous border. He made his way to the 
State of Wisconsin where he had warrants issued in Dane County for 
strangulation, suffocation, false imprisonment, battery, and disorderly 
conduct. He was not detained and deported, as he should have been, 
because Dane County is a sanctuary county.

                              {time}  1200

  He then made his way to Minneapolis, Minnesota, where he was arrested 
for simple property crimes. He was not detained and deported, as he 
should have been as a criminal illegal alien, because Minneapolis is a 
sanctuary city.
  He then made his way to a small town of 5,600 people, Prairie du 
Chien, my hometown, where he brutally raped a mother and savagely beat 
her daughter over a period of days and was finally arrested for 
domestic battery, strangulation, suffocation, physical abuse to a 
child, disorderly conduct, and two counts of second-degree sexual 
assault.
  None of this needed to happen if the law was adhered to. None of this 
would have taken place if this person was detained and deported for a 
simple property crime. Enough.
  It is the Federal Government's primary responsibility to protect its 
citizens. My Democratic colleagues are refusing to do this, and it is 
shameful. It is time to protect our American citizens against criminal 
illegal aliens, and I ask my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to 
strongly support this bill.
  Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from North Carolina (Mr. Harris).
  Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong 
support of H.R. 29, the Laken Riley Act.
  For the past 4 years, the American people have suffered under the 
Biden administration's disastrous open-border policies that have 
allowed millions of illegal aliens to flood our communities.
  One of those illegal aliens was Jose Ibarra. In 2023, he was caught 
shoplifting. Despite multiple arrests on his record in addition to his 
illegal status, he was released under the Biden administration. Months 
later, as we all know, he murdered 22-year-old nursing student Laken 
Riley.
  There is no other way to put it. Her death is a direct result of 
President Biden's deliberate refusal to enforce our laws. It is the 
Federal Government's job to defend our borders and protect our 
citizens, and our government has failed us.
  Fortunately, a new leader is taking office soon. This past November, 
Americans demonstrated that they are fed up with the left's refusal to 
secure our border. I am proud to be part of a Republican majority that 
will work with the new administration to strengthen our laws to ensure 
the safety of every American.
  While I am confident that the Trump administration will secure our 
border and, yes, empower ICE to do its job, we must not allow our 
security to depend on whether or not a Republican occupies the White 
House. We in this Congress must ensure there are no future Laken 
Rileys.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to 
support this legislation.
  Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Clyde).
  Mr. CLYDE. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 29, 
the Laken Riley Act.
  This bill is in remembrance of Laken Riley, the 22-year-old nursing 
student who was tragically murdered last year in my home community of 
Athens, Georgia, by an illegal alien from Venezuela who should have 
never even been in our country.

[[Page H59]]

  After illegally crossing the southern border in 2022, Laken's 
murderer was released through the Biden administration's weaponization 
of the parole program. The following year, he was arrested by the NYPD 
for acting in a manner to injure a minor and for committing a motor 
vehicle license violation.
  According to an Athens-Clarke County Police Department report, this 
illegal alien went on to shoplift in Georgia just weeks after his 
encounter with law enforcement in New York.
  Clearly, this illegal alien had a pattern of criminal history, one 
that started when he accepted Joe Biden's invitation to illegally enter 
our country. He should never have been allowed to reside in the United 
States illegally, and ICE should have immediately issued a detainer 
after he committed these crimes. Ultimately, if ICE had been aware and 
then issued a detainer, this criminal illegal alien would not have even 
been in the United States to commit the horrific murder of Laken Riley.
  We must enact changes now to protect our communities across the 
country from facing additional avoidable tragedies.
  Thankfully, H.R. 29 provides a commonsense solution to do just that. 
This legislation requires ICE to issue detainers and take custody of 
illegal aliens who commit crimes like theft, burglary, and larceny.
  The local jurisdiction, the Athens-Clarke County Unified Government, 
was a sanctuary city, and that is another problem. That is a big 
problem. The sanctuary policy hampered the Athens-Clarke County 
Department of Police Services and the Clarke County Sheriff's Office 
from recognizing and acting upon an ICE detainer, which could have 
prevented Laken's murder.
  Time and time again, communities and families throughout our Nation 
have been devastated by heinous crimes committed by illegal aliens. In 
fact, this past October, the Peach State faced another unspeakable 
tragedy. In Habersham County, in my home district, Ms. Mimi Rodriguez-
Ramirez was brutally murdered by an illegal alien from Mexico. She was 
just 25 years old and left behind a young daughter and a loving family.
  The citizens of Clarke County and Habersham County are hundreds of 
miles from any border but are still being brutally victimized by 
illegal aliens. Enough is enough. These preventable tragedies must come 
to an end.
  As a cosponsor of this critical legislation, I urge my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle to support the Laken Riley Act. After all, one 
of the most formidable ways that Congress can deliver justice for Laken 
Riley, Mimi Rodriguez-Ramirez, and their families is by passing this 
legislation to prevent additional avoidable tragedies from victimizing 
the law-abiding citizens of our Nation.

  Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from New Jersey (Mr. Van Drew).
  Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker, I want to address one thing before we 
start. It was again mentioned about the bipartisan bill. The bipartisan 
bill was a bad bill. It didn't stop catch and release. It didn't 
expedite immediately to the country of origin. It didn't rebuild the 
wall. It didn't have a stay in Mexico policy. It was words. It wasn't 
actions. It wasn't good. That is why people didn't vote for it. That is 
why it wasn't successful.
  Speaking about words, though, when I came here today, I thought about 
a lot of words. I hear a lot of words, a lot of debate, a lot of 
discussion. To the family of Laken Riley and to so many others across 
the United States of America, words don't matter. Condolences don't 
count. Speeches don't do it. Words will never replace her life.
  In life, we have all gone through tragedies sometimes, so we often 
say: My God, why did this happen? Why did this car accident happen? Why 
did this person get cancer? Whatever it is.
  This is different. We know why it happened. It happened because of 
the administration allowing illegals, some of whom--not all of whom but 
some of whom--were criminals into our country, feeding them, clothing 
them, transporting them, housing them, paying for them. Men and women 
are breaking their backs in this country to make a living, but we are 
paying for it.
  We know how it happened. We know how it happened to the New York City 
woman who was set on fire. We know how it happened to State Trooper 
Christopher Gadd in Washington State when he died because of an illegal 
alien. We know how it happened to Lizbeth Medina from the great State 
of Texas. She was 16 years old, and her life was snuffed out. That is 
never okay.
  Laken Riley fought for her life. You hear about her last 20 minutes 
on this Earth. She fought, and she fought with everything she had. She 
didn't want to be raped. She didn't want to be brutalized.
  I don't want to curse here.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs. Bice). The time of the gentleman has 
expired.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentleman from New Jersey.
  Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker, this individual then took a rock and 
bashed her head in until she was unrecognizable.
  Do you know what? Condolences aren't going to do it. I say it to my 
friend on the other side of the aisle, the ranking member. Feeling bad, 
feeling sorry, is not going to do it. It doesn't make the difference.
  All of us here, most of us have been mothers, fathers, brothers, 
sisters, daughters, or sons. You can't imagine how her family feels. 
People say, ``I know how you feel.'' No, I don't know. I don't know. 
You don't know.
  There is something we can do. All this bill does is detain people who 
have done something wrong, who have broken the law already, and who 
have the potential to do even worse. All of these cases that I 
mentioned and many more would not have occurred if we had this law in 
place.
  Don't give condolences. Vote for the bill.
  Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Madam Speaker, I am moved by the words of the gentleman from New 
Jersey who said: Don't give us words. Words don't matter. Speeches 
don't cut it. Speeches don't do it.
  It sounds like an absolute echo of what you hear from our colleagues 
whenever there is an explosion of gun violence in any of our 
communities. We hear thoughts and prayers, lots of words, but no 
action.
  The fact that there is sympathy or condolences, I agree with the 
gentleman, is not enough. We need real public policy changes that will 
be effective and that will be constitutional.
  That is what the discussion is about today. Will these policy 
changes, in fact, be effective? Will they be constitutional or not?
  I agree that we should move from the situation of identifying and 
empathizing with people who have suffered terrible family tragedies and 
private tragedies to effective public policy. That is our job as 
legislators.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, perhaps we should take all the 
criminals off the streets, starting with those who shouldn't have been 
in our country in the first place, which is what this bill does.
  Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. 
Cline).
  Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I support this important legislation that 
would take concrete policy steps toward addressing the problem of open 
borders created by this administration.

  We listened to the gentlewoman from Washington on the other side talk 
about the cost of implementing the legislation. That requires a certain 
amount of hubris to claim to be worried about the cost of implementing 
a piece of legislation when the cost of the open borders that have been 
created by this administration and embraced by the other side are 
clearly evident.
  I have been to the border. We have seen the impact that open borders 
have had on the educational systems, the transportation systems, the 
housing systems, and the agriculture systems. All across this country, 
our Nation is a nation of border communities now because we are all 
being impacted by these open borders.
  Back in 2022, Laken Riley's horrific murder shocked the Nation. Also

[[Page H60]]

shocking was the fact that her murder was preventable. It was 
preventable by enforcing the laws of this country. After his arrest for 
crossing the border illegally in 2022, he was paroled into the United 
States. Months before murdering Laken Riley, he was arrested for theft. 
Local authorities in Georgia released him, and ICE didn't lodge a 
detainer for the alien. Unfortunately, these two actions directly 
contributed to the murder of Laken Riley.
  This legislation that bears her name would require ICE to arrest 
illegal aliens who commit theft offenses and, importantly, would 
mandate that these aliens are detained until they are removed from the 
country. It further requires that the Department of Homeland Security 
issues a detainer for these illegal aliens and take custody of them 
effectively and expeditiously.
  While we anxiously await President Trump's inauguration and know that 
his administration will follow and enforce immigration law and take 
steps to advance the enforcement of our borders, the Laken Riley Act 
ensures that all administrations are held accountable, including the 
previous one, and that our immigration laws are followed.
  Madam Speaker, I support this important legislation, and I thank the 
gentleman for his leadership on the bill.

                              {time}  1215

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Pfluger), the chairman of the Republican Study 
Committee.
  Mr. PFLUGER. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support and full support 
of H.R. 29, the Laken Riley Act. It is long overdue that we actually 
take law and order seriously, that we enforce the laws that are on the 
books.
  Laken Riley is not an isolated incident, unfortunately. Jocelyn 
Nungaray from Texas, mother Rachel Morin, and many others, were 
innocent women who were horrifically killed by illegal aliens, and 
their families are going to be mourning their loss of life for the rest 
of their lives.
  Violent criminals like the ones who committed this heinous act and 
others continue to pour over our border daily, which is why we 
desperately need to pass this act today.
  This legislation will protect American communities by requiring 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to issue detainers, mandatory 
detention for those who are here illegally who also commit theft. It is 
pretty simple. There should be nothing controversial about this.
  In fact, I am interested to see how my colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle who vote against this go back to their districts, Madam 
Speaker, and say: I don't stand for law and order because I don't want 
illegal aliens who are here committing theft, rape, murder, or any 
other offense, to be detained. How can you go back to a district and 
say that?
  In Texas, by the way, good news. With the Laken Riley Act, you now 
have standing to sue the Federal Government when they don't do this, 
when they don't enforce the laws on the books. You have standing to sue 
the Federal Government for failing to uphold the laws that are on our 
books.
  My heart goes out to Laken Riley's family. My heart goes out to other 
people who have had to watch as this administration has stood by and 
done nothing to protect our country, our communities, and the sanctity 
of the safety that we as Americans should always have. Let's go home 
and let's be proud, in a bipartisan way, that we are willing to uphold 
the law.
  I stand in full support of the Laken Riley Act.
  Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  In answer to the distinguished gentleman, he stated precisely what 
the law is now. He said: How can we go back to our districts and not 
defend the immediate deporting of people who have committed theft? That 
is what the law is. They want to change the law to go from someone who 
has actually committed theft, or been convicted of theft, to people who 
have been charged with it, even if the charges have been dropped, or 
arrested for it, even if charges were never brought in the first place.
  I think that the misstatement of the meaning of this legislation 
speaks very deeply to what an opportunistic exercise this really is.
  What the gentleman was asking for is the law today.
  Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I remind my friend that the law also 
requires every illegal alien to be detained until their case is 
adjudicated, which is what the Democrats have ignored these last 4 
years.
  This bill simply says if on top of that the illegal is charged with a 
crime, they need to be detained and taken off the streets.
  The murderer of Laken Riley was charged but not convicted. Had he 
been treated as the detainer law requires, he would have been deported 
and Laken Riley would be alive today.
  I am prepared to close when the gentleman is ready. I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is 
remaining?
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Maryland has 3\1/4\ 
minutes remaining.
  Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time to 
close, and I thank the distinguished gentleman from California for this 
debate.
  I must say that the legislation before us and the approach that it 
embodies reflect a profound disrespect for our criminal justice system 
and for our constitutional values.
  To begin with, they want to change the mandatory detention provisions 
which we have had since 1996 on a bipartisan basis for the last 28 
years. We have operated on the basis of criminal conviction, which is 
obviously congruent with the constitutional demands and values that we 
have in our country.
  Now, without having a legislative hearing, they want to radically 
revise the statutes to say that it is sufficient for somebody to have 
been charged with or arrested for an offense like shoplifting or theft, 
even if the charges are dropped and even if charges are never brought 
after an arrest is made. It seems to me that they are backtracking from 
purported fidelity to our constitutional values.
  Similarly, they want to essentially overthrow Justice Kavanaugh's 8-1 
decision in the United States v. Texas from just a couple of years ago 
where the Supreme Court determined that States do not have standing to 
go to court to say that they don't like the way that a particular 
administration is allocating its resources and implementing a public 
policy.
  Now, if they want to argue that there is a law that is 
unconstitutional, they can argue that, but they can't go to court and 
simply say that the executive branch is implementing the law in a way 
that a particular State doesn't like. Yet, they want to occasion that 
massive shift of power, as Justice Kavanaugh characterized it, so that 
the States would essentially be able to control Federal immigration 
policy.
  I am still reeling from reading the author of this legislation's 
statements yesterday, which I think also speak to a fundamental 
disrespect for the rule of law, which says: Since January 6, hundreds 
of peaceful protesters have been hunted down, arrested, held 
in solitary confinement, and treated unjustly. Countless hours and 
taxpayer dollars have been spent pursuing innocent grandmothers and 
raiding President Trump's home while terrorists and millions of illegal 
immigrants continue to cross our Nation's borders.

  That is the fundamentally demagogic and lawless approach to this 
whole debate that they have taken. Our body was invaded by a mob of 
insurrectionists who injured 140 officers, wounding them and 
hospitalizing them, and they cannot even acknowledge that as a fact but 
instead change the subject to millions of people crossing the border 
illegally, which over the decades has undoubtedly happened under both 
Democrats and Republicans. That is what we should be working on today.
  Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I agree with my colleague that the 
riot at the Capitol 4 years ago was an abomination. I have said so 
repeatedly whenever the subject arises. There is no excuse for it.
  I would also remind the gentleman what Justice Kavanaugh said in the 
United States v. Texas. That is where the Supreme Court ruled the 
States

[[Page H61]]

currently don't have standing to sue to enforce these laws. What he 
actually says was, the ruling was, it would require a change in law: 
elevating de facto injuries to the status of legally cognizable 
injuries redressable by a Federal court. That is what Justice Kavanaugh 
said we needed to do. That is exactly what this bill does, by the book, 
and yet the Democrats still oppose it.
  To my Democratic colleagues, I ask them: How many more laws with 
names attached to them do we need to pass before they take this crisis 
seriously?
  How many American citizens must die at the hands of illegal aliens 
before we all agree that these tragedies are all preventable, lest the 
name of my child or your child be the one attached to an H.R. number 
before the Democrats can vote ``yes'' on these commonsense bills?
  How much more blood must be shed before we can all join in calling 
for an absolute end to the Democrats' reckless open borders and 
sanctuary city policies that have threatened our safety, devastated our 
families, and are in the process of destroying our country?
  The American people have now spoken clearly on this issue. Enough is 
enough.
  Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time for debate has expired.
  Pursuant to House Resolution 5, the previous question is ordered on 
the bill.
  The question is on the engrossment and third reading of the bill.
  The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was 
read the third time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on passage of the bill.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this question will be postponed.

                          ____________________

