[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 11 (Monday, January 20, 2025)]
[Senate]
[Pages S245-S251]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LEGISLATIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                        LAKEN RILEY ACT--Resumed

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the Senate will 
resume consideration of S. 5, which the clerk will report.
  The legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (S. 5) to require the Secretary of Homeland Security 
     to take into custody aliens who have been charged in the 
     United States with theft, and for other purposes.

  Pending:

       Thune (for Ernst/Grassley) amendment No. 8, to include 
     crimes resulting in death or serious bodily injury to the 
     list of offenses that, if committed by an inadmissible alien, 
     require mandatory detention.

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Iowa.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask to speak in morning business for 3 
minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                          Trump Administration

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today, we have a new President. So I say 
congratulations to President Trump.
  As we turn a new page from one administration to another, we can put 
a contentious campaign and all the negative rhetoric behind us.
  There will be plenty of time for arguments, and those arguments can 
be about policy and personalities in the days and years to come, but 
today, this very day, is a day that all Americans can celebrate in 
their own way.
  With today's inauguration, there is a sense of optimism that always 
comes with a new President and a rededication of our republican form of 
government.
  Even those who voted another way on November 5 can take the 
opportunity to pause and enjoy the excitement of their fellow Americans 
and even allow themselves to share in some of that optimism.
  Of course, a new President must assemble a Cabinet of people he 
trusts to carry out his agenda and do that under the Constitution with 
the advice and consent of the Senate, with the expectation that before 
the day is out, we will approve the nomination of Senator Marco Rubio 
to be our Nation's 72nd Secretary of State. I am proud that today we 
can do that.
  No one in this body can doubt that Marco Rubio is a very intelligent 
man with a remarkable understanding of America's foreign policy and a 
very deep commitment to the American dream. That dream comes from the 
fact that his family has a history that started with the immigration to 
the United States from Cuba and then watching their former homeland 
fall into a communist dictatorship that still exists to this day. That 
helps explain his love for America and his drive to oppose oppressive, 
autocratic regimes that threaten freedom.
  Even in this time of intense partisanship and intense time of 
character assassination, I expect Senator Rubio will receive an 
overwhelming vote for his confirmation. His colleagues know his talents 
and his character firsthand. I expect most, if not all, of my 
colleagues will vote based on what they have seen with their own eyes 
rather than blind partisanship.
  I look forward to Marco Rubio continuing his passionate defense of 
freedom in his role as our next Secretary of State.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                                  S. 5

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, last week, you heard me speak in support 
of

[[Page S246]]

the Laken Riley Act, a vote that we are going to have later this 
afternoon. Today, I would like to discuss a related bill called Sarah's 
Law.
  Sarah Root was a young woman from Iowa who had a bright future ahead 
of her. Her life was tragically cut short just 1 day after she 
graduated from college with a 4.0 grade point average. She was killed 
when an illegal migrant who was street racing while heavily drunk 
crashed his car into Sarah Root's while she was stopped at a red light. 
In an outrage of justice, this illegal migrant was released after his 
arrest.
  Sarah's Law requires immigration authorities to detain criminals 
responsible for a death or serious bodily jury.
  Illegal migrants shouldn't be here in the first place. Everybody 
knows that it is against the law to enter the United States without our 
permission. Even so, if they come here violating our law, they hurt and 
kill an American, the Federal Government must prioritize their 
detention and deportation.
  The Trump administration has promised to remove dangerous criminals 
who cross our borders illegally. Sarah's Law will support these 
efforts.
  I would like to thank my colleague Senator Ernst for her long and 
tireless efforts to get this bill passed. Senator Ernst first 
introduced Sarah's Law almost a decade ago, and I was proud to join as 
an original cosponsor and colead this effort. Since then, she has 
reintroduced the bill with each new congressional session.
  We haven't forgotten Sarah Root, and it is long past time for 
Congress to pass this legislation that we have named after Sarah--
Sarah's Law.
  I urge my colleagues to pass the Laken Riley Act as amended with 
Sarah's Law included.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                   Recognition of the Majority Leader

  The majority leader is recognized.


            60th Inaugural Ceremony and Cabinet Nominations

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I want to offer my warmest congratulations 
to President Trump and Vice President Vance.
  There is a sense of optimism today in Washington as we turn the page 
on the past 4 years, and I am looking forward to working with President 
Trump and Vice President Vance in the coming months and years to build 
a bright new future for our country.
  Our priority here in the Senate for the next few weeks is getting 
President Trump's nominees confirmed so that he has the team that he 
needs in place to deliver. We have already been hard at work on that.
  Last week, Senate committees held hearings on 12 nominees. On 
Wednesday, we held hearings on a total of six Cabinet nominees--the 
most Cabinet confirmation hearings in a single day since 2001. I am 
hoping to begin floor votes imminently.
  I am excited to vote to confirm a longtime colleague, Senator Marco 
Rubio, as Secretary of State this week as well as former Congressman 
and Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe as head of the 
CIA. Both of these men will bring a renewed focus to restoring American 
strength, knowing that the surest guarantee of peace here at home and 
in other regions of the globe as well is a strong and prepared America. 
More confirmation votes will follow, and I will work to have the 
President's Cabinet in place in the very near future. President Trump 
and Republicans have been given a mandate by the American people, and 
the President needs to have his team in place so that we lose no time 
in delivering.

  Along with approving President Trump's nominees, Republicans are hard 
at work on our legislative priorities. Among other things, we are 
focused on extending tax relief for American families, lifting 
burdensome Biden administration regulations, building up our military, 
and securing our border.
  The Senate took an initial step on border security this past week 
with consideration of the Laken Riley Act, which hopefully will pass 
the Senate today. This legislation will ensure that illegal aliens who 
steal or assault a law enforcement officer are detained by Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement instead of being allowed out on the streets. I 
am looking forward to getting this legislation to the President's desk.
  When I was elected majority leader, I talked about my commitment to 
empowering Members and restoring the Senate as a place of discussion 
and deliberation. I think we achieved that this past week. We have had 
an extended debate on the Laken Riley Act, with multiple amendment 
votes already and one more scheduled for this evening, and we passed 
Senator Cornyn's amendment with a strong bipartisan margin.
  I am grateful to Senator Katie Britt, author of the Laken Riley Act 
and manager of the bill, for all her work and to Senator Budd for his 
leadership on these issues, and I am grateful also to Senators Cornyn 
and Ernst for their amendments to further strengthen this legislation.


                                 Israel

  Mr. President, before I close, I want to mention the cease-fire 
between Israel and Hamas, agreed to at the end of last week. This 
agreement is due in no small part to the unequivocal message President-
elect Trump delivered to Hamas and the world after his election and, 
above all, to Israel's unwavering commitment to crippling the terrorist 
organization that has dedicated itself to wiping Israel off the map.
  Thirty-three hostages--women and children, the injured, and those 
over 50 years old--will be released during the first phase of the 
cease-fire, including the three hostages who were released yesterday. 
The rest of the hostages are scheduled to be released over the next two 
phases of the cease-fire, and the families and loved ones will continue 
to wait in agony until they are safely home.
  It is intolerable that these innocent individuals have been in the 
hands of terrorists for more than 15 months, and I want to underscore 
the absolute imperative of the return of all hostages as soon as 
possible. Hamas should be on notice that the United States is watching 
and that we will not tolerate further delays or further aggression.
  I want to again offer my warmest congratulations to President Trump 
and to Vice President Vance. I look forward to all that we can achieve 
together, and I pray that God will bless their new administration.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Kennedy). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                   Recognition of the Minority Leader

  The Democratic leader is recognized.


                        60th Inaugural Ceremony

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, a few hours ago, beneath the dome of the 
U.S. Capitol, with the eyes of the world upon us, the United States 
carried out, yet again, a peaceful transfer of power. We fulfilled the 
sacred commandment handed down to us by the Framers nearly two and a 
half centuries ago. We observed the inauguration of Donald Trump, the 
47th President of the United States.
  I congratulate President Trump. I congratulate Vice President Vance. 
The prayers of the American people are with them.
  Today, let me also thank one more time our Nation's 46th President, 
Joe Biden. History will look kindly on President Biden's 4 years in 
office. He lifted America out of the abyss of crisis. He restored 
decency and integrity to the White House. His bold agenda, made 
possible by Democrats in Congress and particularly in the Senate, will 
stand the test of time.
  When Americans drive on better roads, breathe cleaner air, enjoy 
good-paying manufacturing jobs, and save on prescription drugs, it will 
be because of the things we accomplished under President Biden's watch. 
So I thank President Biden and I thank Vice President Harris for their 
service to our Nation.
  The peaceful transfer of power is the defining feature of a free 
society. It is what separates nations like the United

[[Page S247]]

States from the wastelands of despotism and autocracy. As we have seen 
recently, the peaceful transfer of power can never be taken for 
granted. It requires all sides to accept the will of the people and 
affirm the results of the democratic process, no matter the outcome.
  That is what Democrats firmly believe in. Democrats believe in the 
peaceful transfer of power, and we showed it today. Democrats are 
loyal, above all, to our Constitution and to our democratic principles, 
and today we practiced what we preached: the democratic transfer of 
power. I hope that today's inauguration shows the world that the chaos 
of 4 years ago was an unfortunate aberration and not the norm.
  It is now time to look to the future. The challenges that face 
America are many and great. The Senate must respond with resolve, 
bipartisanship, and fidelity to the working and middle class of this 
country. While President Trump and I often disagree, I stand ready to 
work with him and with anyone, regardless of party, to advance the 
Nation's well-being. The American people want us to work together to 
make their lives better. Democrats are ready to do just that. We have 
been and always will be.


                      Martin Luther King, Jr., Day

  Mr. President, finally, today, of course, is not just Inauguration 
Day but Martin Luther King, Jr., Day too.
  Today, we remember that the march of justice may sometimes feel slow 
and halting, but if we persist and persist and persist, then one day 
we, too, shall reach the Promised Land.
  I like to say that Dr. King hoisted a giant mirror on his shoulders 
and, with his brilliance, his eloquence, and his faith, he forced 
America to look into that mirror. And America didn't like what it saw, 
and that began us on a real road, a real path to greater equality, and 
we still have a long way to go.
  But King was an amazing man, and it is fitting that his holiday is 
the only holiday on the calendar named for just one person. We have 
Mother's Day for the mothers, Father's Day for the fathers, Presidents 
Day for the Presidents, Veterans Day for the veterans, but only one 
holiday for one man. That is because Dr. King was so unique and so 
amazing.
  Now, the work of justice--we all know, and Dr. King taught us--does 
not happen overnight. Sometimes progress rushes forth like a mighty 
stream. Other times it may feel as if progress flows in reverse and 
moves backward. Either way, Dr. King's hopeful message is the same: No 
matter the odds, we shall overcome.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


              Unanimous Consent Request--Amendment No. 90

  Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I would ask unanimous consent of the 
Presiding Officer to set aside the pending amendment so I may offer my 
amendment No. 90; that there be up to 15 minutes for debate on the 
amendment; and that upon the use or yielding back of time, the Senate 
vote on the amendment without further intervening action or debate.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there any objection?
  The Senator from Alabama.
  Mrs. BRITT. Mr. President, reserving my right to object, the Laken 
Riley Act is a targeted, commonsense, lifesaving bill. This legislation 
adds crimes to the mandatory detention provisions of the INA and uses 
the existing framework of the INA.
  What this amendment would do is introduce new carve-outs that don't 
already exist.
  We have a crisis in this Nation. Our border has been overrun, and 
every city across this country is paying the price.
  Today, we return to common sense. We return to practicality. If you 
come here illegally and you commit a crime, you should not be free to 
roam the streets of this Nation. Our children deserve better, and that 
is exactly what we are giving them today.
  My colleague from Colorado speaks of DACA. Of the 537,000 DACA 
recipients in this Nation, there is not one that is under the age of 
17.
  And, in fact, of the 537,000 recipients, there are only 1,000 between 
the ages of 17 and 20. When you are talking about other minors across 
this Nation, some of which may be here illegally, we are seeing the 
cost to them right now.
  Look no further than what is happening in New York. We have teen 
migrant gangs running rampant, where you have minors as young as 11 
being involved in the theft and burglary rings.
  What do you think you do if you carve out a certain set of minors? Do 
you think you make them more safe from the people looking to do them 
harm? Do you think the drug cartels, all of a sudden, say: Hey, I am 
going to leave them alone.
  No, that is not what happens. What happens is each and every one of 
those kids becomes a greater target. They become more vulnerable to 
become a mule to do the work of the drug cartels and the human 
traffickers.
  Again, now is the time to return to common sense. Now is the time to 
return to law and order. We are a proud nation of immigrants. We are 
also a nation of laws, and the lawlessness ends today.
  I could not be more proud of those who are choosing today to support 
the Laken Riley Act because what we have done is we have decided we are 
going to stop talking and we are going to start achieving results. We 
are looking for targeted reforms. They are going to keep Americans safe 
and secure. It is exactly what the Laken Riley Act does. It honors 
Laken's life and legacy, a beautiful life and legacy. As her mother 
Allyson and her stepfather John Phillips have said, she brought warmth 
to everyone who knew her--that she lit up every room, that she found 
ways to show kindness and her faith and her love for the Lord.
  Today, we honor Laken, and we ensure that with this commonsense 
approach, targeted, making sure that our communities are safe and 
secure, that no other family has to go through the heartbreak that 
Laken's did.
  So, ultimately, I have to say no to this amendment, and, therefore, I 
object.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
  The Senator from Colorado.
  Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Alabama for her 
work on the Senate floor and for coming over. I know this is a big day 
around the Senate. It is a big day for America, and it is appropriate, 
I think, that we should be here on this issue today because, over the 
coming months and years, we are going to be confronting a lot of 
choices to make. And I think it is critically important that, as we 
make these choices, we do it in a way that is consistent with our 
values.
  Throughout our history, generations of Americans have tried to secure 
our heritage as a nation of immigrants and a nation committed to the 
rule of law. Both of those are important. And when we have fallen 
short, which we have from time to time, we have battled back to reclaim 
these moral values.
  Our enduring commitment to this imperfect but principled work is why 
21st century America has one of the most dynamic economies, vibrant 
cultures, and an important reputation throughout the world as a beacon 
of freedom. That reputation, by the way, is not assured. That is a 
reputation that has to be earned by our Nation every single day.
  Although our Founders were famously suspicious of overreaching by the 
Federal Government, they recognized the obvious national imperatives--
the national security and foreign policy imperatives--and the problems 
that would arise if every State and county and city were to enforce its 
own immigration laws. And that is why the Constitution of the United 
States says that the Congress, working with the President, should 
administer those laws, and, therefore, logically assigned the 
responsibility to our national government--not to our State government, 
not to our local government--to enforce our immigration law.
  Throughout our history, the American people have been welcoming to 
new immigrants--and sometimes less so. Understandably, chaotic and 
changing circumstances like the ones we face today sometimes raise 
alarms among the American people. Unfortunately, in

[[Page S248]]

our time--and I would agree with the Senator from Alabama on this--we 
have not addressed the chaos at the southern border of the United 
States, and politicians have used this crisis for years to divide the 
American people on one side of the partisan divide and as another. And 
as a result, the failing immigration system that we have has only 
become more broken.
  The thing that I want to make sure of is that, as we think about the 
chaos that we are facing, the complexity that we are facing, is that we 
don't--as we have occasionally in the past--abandon our values and our 
commitment to the rule of law.
  In more inspired times, we have used these crises to actually burnish 
our great global advantage as a nation of immigrants that is committed 
to the rule of law.
  In 2013, we had what was, in my view, an important chance to embrace 
those values with the Senate's work on the Gang of 8. The Senator of 
Alabama might remember it. To her, that seems like ancient history. I 
was one of the members of the Gang of 8. I was a lot younger than I am 
today and so were the other members of that gang too. But we seriously 
tried to take on meaningful immigration reform in this Chamber.
  We had a tough but fair pathway to citizenship for those who could 
earn it in the United States. We included the Dream Act. We had a 
massive overhaul--massive overhaul--of our visa system so our farms and 
ranches and high-tech industries, even our ski industry, could continue 
to compete with the rest of the world. We had $46 billion of border 
security money in there--I hate to think what that money was in real 
dollars today, what that $46 billion would look like today; I bet you 
it is around $60 billion--that 68 people in this Chamber agreed to 
support together.
  There was so much money in that bill that Lindsey Graham--Senator 
Graham from South Carolina, who was another member of the Gang of 8, 
used to say there were going to be so many border patrol agents that 
they could literally hold hands from one end of the border to the other 
across the United States of America.
  I can see that the Senator from Alabama has heard that story before.
  There has been a huge cost of inaction, not just the money that if we 
had spent it then would have made such a huge difference but the 
painful consequences the Senator from Alabama and others have talked 
about, I have talked about, for the American people and for our 
country.
  In the end, after months of going through the legislative wringer, as 
I mentioned, we got 68 votes over here in the Senate. If it had been 
given a chance--read Speaker Boehner's book; he will tell you this. If 
it had gone to the floor, it would have gotten a majority vote on the 
floor of the Senate. But the Freedom Caucus killed that bill in a 
legislative back alley before it could see the light of day on the 
House floor.
  And since then, like with so many of the American people's most 
fundamental concerns, the Federal Government and this Congress has been 
immobilized on the subject of immigration, for sure, under both 
Republican and Democratic Presidents.
  In the meantime, transnational gangs have seized full opportunity of 
our inaction, raking in billions of dollars smuggling human beings and 
drugs and weapons to the southern border of the United States. These 
criminal syndicates have perfected their worldwide smuggling 
operations. They have trained people how to exploit our asylum system, 
and they have weaponized social media to enable thousands of people to 
travel all over the globe to present themselves at the southern border 
of the United States or to come through the southern border. And the 
result of that paralysis has been, at times, an overwhelmed southern 
border.
  For this reason, in 2022, I urged the Biden administration never to 
lift title 42 without a plan and without the resources to execute it. 
They were unprepared for what was to come, and they were too slow to 
act.
  It is clear to almost everybody today that our system isn't built for 
today's conditions. We need to fix it, and we need to give the American 
people confidence that we have a fair and secure system in place.
  So how do we do that? Well, tonight, we are going to vote on the 
first response from the Congress, the Laken Riley Act, which I think is 
neither focused on driving resources to the border or establishing a 
more robust and rigorous system of immigration. Instead, contrary to 
our constitutional obligation, today's bill devolves authority away 
from the President and Congress to 50 State attorneys general, in ways 
that seem extremely counterproductive to me.
  I hope I am not right about this; although, you can already see a 
battle brewing in the administration about this.
  This bill provides State attorneys general the power to seek 
nationwide injunctions to completely block certain countries, like 
India and China and El Salvador, from sending immigrants here.
  Imagine a Salvadorian farmworker on an H-2A visa living in Florida or 
Louisiana committing a violent crime leading to a deportation order.
  He should be deported. I am not here to dispute that. I don't dispute 
that.
  But with this bill, if El Salvador doesn't accept his deportation, 
Florida's attorney general could ask a court to force the Federal 
Government to ban all visas from El Salvador or all H-2A visas or all 
H-1B visas for high-tech workers for all that matters.
  Nearly 5,500 people in Colorado today are working on an H-2A visa. 
Why should Florida's attorney general be able to dictate Colorado's 
need for these workers? Why should any State attorney general be able 
to hammer the economies of 49 other States? It doesn't make any sense.
  It is because Congress and the administration have abandoned their 
responsibility here that we find ourselves in this position.
  Second, this bill creates mandatory detention policies for immigrants 
accused of committing nonviolent and also violent crime. And as I said, 
I believe we should be going after transnational gangs, street gangs, 
and people who pose a threat to our community. When a brutal crime is 
committed, as in the case of Laken Riley, we should respond. We have to 
respond. And we should stand with her family--as the Senator from 
Alabama has done--and her community and ensure that something like that 
never happens again.
  But in my opinion, this bill is not targeted enough. It would force 
ICE, working with local law enforcement, to detain immigrants who are 
accused--not just convicted but accused--of a very broad set of crimes, 
including shoplifting, without regard to how young they are or, more 
important, whether they are a threat to our community or a threat to 
public safety.
  There is a good reason--and I know the presiding officer may not 
agree with this, but I know he knows the logic. There is a good reason 
why we seldom pass legislation with mandatory detention or jailing. We 
tend to believe that law enforcement is in the best position to 
determine in realtime who the threat to public safety actually is. And 
we know we don't have the resources--we never have the resources--to 
lock up every nonviolent offender without regard to whether they are a 
threat to public safety or not.
  I know this sounds crazy, but this bill is so broadly drafted that it 
would compel law enforcement to put a mandatory detention on--you heard 
it--an 11-year-old immigrant in New York accused of stealing a soda 
from a gas station. I think most law enforcement agents across the 
country would tell you that their time would be much better spent 
tracking down and detaining, for example, a violent criminal who has 
bludgeoned their neighbor with a hammer. But this bill doesn't 
distinguish between those two cases. Instead, it strips law enforcement 
of their ability to make their best judgment about whom to arrest and 
not to arrest, whom to detain and not detain, and how to focus their 
precious resources on protecting our public safety.
  The proponents of this bill do not deny that children will be swept 
up in its administration. This is not a drafting error. In this bill, 
every undocumented person accused--not just convicted but accused--of a 
list of crimes that is in this bill must be detained. That might sound 
like law and order,

[[Page S249]]

but it is easy to see how this encroachment on law enforcement's 
ability to do its job could spiral out of control.
  To make matters even worse, this bill does not provide ICE with the 
resources it needs to implement what is now a massive unfunded 
liability. And I know that the proponents of the bill say they are 
going to fix that problem. But just so you understand, ICE says this 
bill is going to cost $27 billion a year. That is their number. I have 
heard much higher numbers than that. Let's take their number: $27 
billion a year. That is three times ICE's annual budget of $9 billion.
  Many of us are used to Congress passing bills without ever paying for 
them, but this may be one of the worst cases that we have seen.
  And I know there may be an attempt here through reconciliation--you 
know, a tax measure to try to fund this in some way or to pick some 
other place to do it--but choices are going to have to be made between 
the mandatory detention of people who may not be a threat to our 
community and other choices like the funding for border patrol or the 
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office at the Homeland Security, 
the disaster relief fund--just three that come to mind.
  Put another way, every dollar that ICE spends incarcerating kids is a 
dollar the border patrol doesn't have to spend on the border itself. 
Wouldn't the American people be a lot better off if Homeland Security 
were left to focus on violent criminals and enforcing the border, not 
on kids accused of nonviolent crimes?
  I assume no one here really thinks that mandatorily incarcerating 
children accused of nonviolent crimes is the best, most strategic way 
to fix our immigration system. We certainly don't want a repeat of the 
images of children caged in chain-link enclosures screaming out for 
their parents.
  Federal law enforcement does not want a repeat of that, least of all, 
least of anybody, and I doubt any of us would want private prisons 
managing that outcome either. That episode was a shameful part of our 
history. It falls into that chapter of our history.
  In another one of our more shameful immigration failures, Congress 
has never addressed the status of the Dreamers. The Senator from 
Alabama made this point when she said that there isn't a Dreamer in the 
country that is less than 17 years old. That is because notwithstanding 
the American people's overwhelming support for Dreamers who know no 
country other than the United States, that we have been unable to 
rationalize their presence in the country.
  But 3 million Dreamers--who, after all these years, are now middle-
age nurses and teachers and small business owners with families of 
their own--are also vulnerable.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Senator, your time has expired.
  Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I ask for 2 additional minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. BENNET. We can make this bill better and stronger by focusing on 
the actual threats to public safety and protecting nonviolent kids from 
getting locked up, stripped away from their parents, schools, churches, 
and communities. We can make this bill better by protecting nonviolent 
Dreamers from mandatory incarceration in the only country they know.
  I know my time is almost over.
  The American people want us to fix our broken immigration system. 
They want us to feel safe in our own country. They want us to secure 
the border and cut down on illegal border crossings. They want us to 
strengthen rigorous legal pathways to support our economy and attract 
top talent. They want us to improve our partnerships with other 
countries so there is a reason for people to stay at home and not just 
come here. As we fix our broken immigration system, most Americans want 
people treated with dignity, especially if they are children.
  Immigration is one of the many challenges facing our country today. 
It touches every aspect of our economy. It directly affects families 
and often implicates our core values. In their best moments, our 
parents and grandparents managed to navigate these tough issues by 
upholding the law and honoring our values. We must not abandon that 
aspiration in our time.
  Mr. President, I am grateful for your patience. I apologize for going 
over a minute or two.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Alabama.
  Mrs. BRITT. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senators 
Ernst, Risch, Shaheen, and I be permitted to speak for up to 5 minutes 
each prior to the scheduled rollcall votes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mrs. BRITT. Mr. President, before I yield the floor to my 
distinguished colleague from Iowa, I do want to respond to one thing my 
colleague from Colorado said.
  I am glad to see there being a keen interest on what is happening to 
immigrant children now. My question has been, where has that passion 
been for the last 4 years when we had over 468,000 unaccompanied minors 
come across our border?
  I just saw my distinguished colleague from Wisconsin walk in, who has 
tried to bring attention to this, tried to make sure we had a hearing 
on the 88,000-plus children that have been lost under this previous 
administration.
  Look, additionally, when you talk about ICE, there are 6,000 ICE 
officers in the interior of our country, and we have over 11 million 
migrants that have come here illegally, over 7.8 that are actually in 
removal proceedings, and over 1.4 million that have been given their 
final orders of removal, and yet the resources have not been there for 
them to do that at the level they need. That will change under this 
administration and under the Republican majority.
  I now yield the floor to my colleague from Iowa.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Iowa.


                            Amendment No. 8

  Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Laken Riley Act 
and ask my fellow colleagues to vote for my amendment, Sarah's Law. 
Combined, these actions will close the loopholes that for too long have 
allowed murderers who come here illegally to roam free in our 
communities and commit more crimes.
  These two young women, Sarah Root and Laken Riley, and their families 
deserve justice. Folks, we can make this happen tonight. After all, 
this is not a partisan fight. I am honored to have my colleague Senator 
Fetterman from the great State of Pennsylvania cosponsoring Sarah's 
Law.
  The truth is, the border crisis has impacted every State, not just 
southern border States like Texas and Arizona but New York, Georgia, 
Pennsylvania, and, yes, folks, even Iowa.
  The end of this month marks 9 years since Iowan's Michelle Root and 
Scott Root, whom I know personally, woke up to every parent's worst 
nightmare: Their daughter Sarah was killed by a drunk driver who was an 
illegal immigrant. Sarah, a 21-year-old from Council Bluffs, IA, had 
just graduated from Bellevue University in Nebraska with a 4.0 GPA. She 
was headed home after celebrating this milestone--a very important day 
in her life--with her family and friends. In an instant, an illegal 
immigrant, Edwin Mejia, who was drunk-driving, with a blood alcohol 
three times the legal limit, struck and killed her.
  One would think that Sarah's killer would clearly meet Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement's ``enforcement priorities'' but no--no. Citing 
the Obama administration's November 2014 memo, ICE declined to take 
custody of Mejia. Yes, folks, he had killed a woman, and they declined 
to take custody of Edwin Mejia despite his repeated driving offenses 
and history of skipping court dates.
  Before the Root family could even lay Sarah to rest in her satin-
lined casket in the cold Iowa ground, her murderer had posted bond, 
never to be seen again and never to face justice.
  Since then, I have warned repeatedly against the dangers of letting 
illegal immigrants who have already broken our laws roam the country 
and continue their lawlessness.
  A loophole in the law meant Sarah's killer escaped justice, but today 
we can do something to ensure that no other family has to go through 
the pain and the grief that Scott and Michelle and Scotty and the rest 
of their family still feel from that heartbreaking day. My amendment 
would close the alarming

[[Page S250]]

loophole that let Sarah's killer go free. It would simply require ICE 
to detain illegal immigrants charged with killing or seriously injuring 
another person so they do not disappear before facing justice.
  Let's make this a reality today for Sarah's family, for Laken's 
family, and for the countless American families we can protect.
  I thank the gentle lady from Alabama for spearheading this effort to 
bring justice for our families.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Idaho.


                           Order of Procedure

  Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that following 
disposition of Calendar No. 1, S. 5, the Senate proceed to executive 
session to consider Executive Calendar No. 2, Marco Rubio of Florida to 
be Secretary of State; further, that the Senate vote on confirmation of 
the Rubio nomination with no intervening action or debate; finally, 
that, if confirmed, the motion to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table and the President be immediately notified of the 
Senate's action. I would also ask unanimous consent that immediately 
prior to that vote, I be given 3 minutes to debate and my distinguished 
colleague from New Hampshire also be given 3 minutes to debate prior to 
calling the vote.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                        Vote on Amendment No. 8

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, all postcloture time 
is expired.
  The question occurs on adoption of amendment No. 8, as amended.
  Ms. ERNST. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk called the roll.
  The result was announced--yeas 75, nays 24, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 6 Leg.]

                                YEAS--75

     Baldwin
     Banks
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blackburn
     Blumenthal
     Boozman
     Britt
     Budd
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cassidy
     Collins
     Coons
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Cramer
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Curtis
     Daines
     Ernst
     Fetterman
     Fischer
     Gallego
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hagerty
     Hassan
     Hawley
     Heinrich
     Hickenlooper
     Hoeven
     Hyde-Smith
     Johnson
     Justice
     Kelly
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Lee
     Lujan
     Lummis
     Marshall
     McConnell
     McCormick
     Moran
     Moreno
     Mullin
     Murkowski
     Ossoff
     Paul
     Peters
     Ricketts
     Risch
     Rosen
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Schmitt
     Scott (FL)
     Scott (SC)
     Shaheen
     Sheehy
     Slotkin
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Tuberville
     Warner
     Warnock
     Wicker
     Wyden
     Young

                                NAYS--24

     Alsobrooks
     Blunt Rochester
     Booker
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Gillibrand
     Hirono
     Kaine
     Kim
     Markey
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Padilla
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schiff
     Schumer
     Smith
     Van Hollen
     Warren
     Welch
     Whitehouse
  The amendment (No. 8), as amended, was agreed to.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sullivan). The majority leader.
  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the next vote 
be a 10-minute vote.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will read the title of the bill for the third time.
  The bill was ordered to be engrossed for a third reading and was read 
the third time.


                              Vote on S. 5

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill having been read the third time, the 
question is, Shall the bill pass, as amended?
  Mrs. BRITT. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll.
  The result was announced--yeas 64, nays 35, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 7 Leg.]

                                YEAS--64

     Banks
     Barrasso
     Blackburn
     Boozman
     Britt
     Budd
     Capito
     Cassidy
     Collins
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Cramer
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Curtis
     Daines
     Ernst
     Fetterman
     Fischer
     Gallego
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hagerty
     Hassan
     Hawley
     Hoeven
     Hyde-Smith
     Johnson
     Justice
     Kelly
     Kennedy
     Lankford
     Lee
     Lummis
     Marshall
     McConnell
     McCormick
     Moran
     Moreno
     Mullin
     Murkowski
     Ossoff
     Paul
     Peters
     Ricketts
     Risch
     Rosen
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Schmitt
     Scott (FL)
     Scott (SC)
     Shaheen
     Sheehy
     Slotkin
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Tuberville
     Warner
     Warnock
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--35

     Alsobrooks
     Baldwin
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Blunt Rochester
     Booker
     Cantwell
     Coons
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Gillibrand
     Heinrich
     Hickenlooper
     Hirono
     Kaine
     Kim
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lujan
     Markey
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Padilla
     Reed
     Sanders
     Schatz
     Schiff
     Schumer
     Smith
     Van Hollen
     Warren
     Welch
     Whitehouse
     Wyden
  The bill (S. 5), as amended, was passed as follows:

                                  S. 5

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Laken Riley Act''.

     SEC. 2. DETENTION OF CERTAIN ALIENS WHO COMMIT THEFT.

       Section 236(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
     U.S.C. 1226(c)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``or'';
       (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the comma at the end 
     and inserting ``, or''; and
       (C) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:
       (E)(i) is inadmissible under paragraph (6)(A), (6)(C), or 
     (7) of section 212(a); and
       ``(ii) is charged with, is arrested for, is convicted of, 
     admits having committed, or admits committing acts which 
     constitute the essential elements of any burglary, theft, 
     larceny, shoplifting, or assault of a law enforcement officer 
     offense, or any crime that results in death or serious bodily 
     injury to another person,'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (4); and
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
       ``(2) Definition.--For purposes of paragraph (1)(E), the 
     terms `burglary', `theft', `larceny', `shoplifting', `assault 
     of a law enforcement officer', and `serious bodily injury' 
     have the meanings given such terms in the jurisdiction in 
     which the acts occurred.''
       ``(3) Detainer.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
     issue a detainer for an alien described in paragraph (1)(E) 
     and, if the alien is not otherwise detained by Federal, 
     State, or local officials, shall effectively and 
     expeditiously take custody of the alien.''.

     SEC. 3. ENFORCEMENT BY ATTORNEY GENERAL OF A STATE.

       (a) Inspection of Applicants for Admission.--Section 235(b) 
     of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1225(b)) is 
     amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
       (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
       ``(3) Enforcement by attorney general of a state.--The 
     attorney general of a State, or other authorized State 
     officer, alleging a violation of the detention and removal 
     requirements under paragraph (1) or (2) that harms such State 
     or its residents shall have standing to bring an action 
     against the Secretary of Homeland Security on behalf of such 
     State or the residents of such State in an appropriate 
     district court of the United States to obtain appropriate 
     injunctive relief. The court shall advance on the docket and 
     expedite the disposition of a civil action filed under this 
     paragraph to the greatest extent practicable. For purposes of 
     this paragraph, a State or its residents shall be considered 
     to have been harmed if the State or its residents experience 
     harm, including financial harm in excess of $100.''.
       (b) Apprehension and Detention of Aliens.--Section 236 of 
     the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1226), as 
     amended by this Act, is further amended--
       (1) in subsection (e)--
       (A) by striking ``or release''; and
       (B) by striking ``grant, revocation, or denial'' and insert 
     ``revocation or denial''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(f) Enforcement by Attorney General of a State.--The 
     attorney general of a State, or other authorized State 
     officer, alleging an action or decision by the Attorney 
     General or Secretary of Homeland Security under this section 
     to release any alien or grant bond or parole to any alien 
     that harms such State or its residents shall have standing to 
     bring an action against the Attorney General or Secretary of 
     Homeland Security on behalf of such State or the residents of 
     such State in an appropriate district court of the United 
     States to obtain appropriate injunctive relief. The court 
     shall advance on

[[Page S251]]

     the docket and expedite the disposition of a civil action 
     filed under this subsection to the greatest extent 
     practicable. For purposes of this subsection, a State or its 
     residents shall be considered to have been harmed if the 
     State or its residents experience harm, including financial 
     harm in excess of $100.''.
       (c) Penalties.--Section 243 of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1253) is amended by adding at the 
     end the following:
       ``(e) Enforcement by Attorney General of a State.--The 
     attorney general of a State, or other authorized State 
     officer, alleging a violation of the requirement to 
     discontinue granting visas to citizens, subjects, nationals, 
     and residents as described in subsection (d) that harms such 
     State or its residents shall have standing to bring an action 
     against the Secretary of State on behalf of such State or the 
     residents of such State in an appropriate district court of 
     the United States to obtain appropriate injunctive relief. 
     The court shall advance on the docket and expedite the 
     disposition of a civil action filed under this subsection to 
     the greatest extent practicable. For purposes of this 
     subsection, a State or its residents shall be considered to 
     have been harmed if the State or its residents experience 
     harm, including financial harm in excess of $100.''.
       (d) Certain Classes of Aliens.--Section 212(d)(5) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``Attorney General'' each place such term 
     appears and inserting ``Secretary of Homeland Security''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) The attorney general of a State, or other authorized 
     State officer, alleging a violation of the limitation under 
     subparagraph (A) that parole solely be granted on a case-by-
     case basis and solely for urgent humanitarian reasons or a 
     significant public benefit, that harms such State or its 
     residents shall have standing to bring an action against the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security on behalf of such State or the 
     residents of such State in an appropriate district court of 
     the United States to obtain appropriate injunctive relief. 
     The court shall advance on the docket and expedite the 
     disposition of a civil action filed under this subparagraph 
     to the greatest extent practicable. For purposes of this 
     subparagraph, a State or its residents shall be considered to 
     have been harmed if the State or its residents experience 
     harm, including financial harm in excess of $100.''.
       (e) Detention.--Section 241(a)(2) of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(a)(2)) is amended--
       (1) by striking ``During the removal period,'' and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(A) In general.--During the removal period,''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(B) Enforcement by attorney general of a state.--The 
     attorney general of a State, or other authorized State 
     officer, alleging a violation of the detention requirement 
     under subparagraph (A) that harms such State or its residents 
     shall have standing to bring an action against the Secretary 
     of Homeland Security on behalf of such State or the residents 
     of such State in an appropriate district court of the United 
     States to obtain appropriate injunctive relief. The court 
     shall advance on the docket and expedite the disposition of a 
     civil action filed under this subparagraph to the greatest 
     extent practicable. For purposes of this subparagraph, a 
     State or its residents shall be considered to have been 
     harmed if the State or its residents experience harm, 
     including financial harm in excess of $100.''.
       (f) Limit on Injunctive Relief.--Section 242(f) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1252(f)) is amended 
     by adding at the end following:
       ``(3) Certain actions.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to an 
     action brought pursuant to section 235(b)(3), subsections (e) 
     or (f) of section 236, or section 241(a)(2)(B).''.

                          ____________________

