[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 16 (Saturday, January 25, 2025)]
[Senate]
[Page S376]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                              Project 2025

  Mr. President, now, on Project 2025, does anyone here remember when 
Donald Trump claimed he had nothing to do with Project 2025? Remember, 
last year, Donald Trump seemed to go out of his way to distance himself 
from the wildly unpopular Project 2025? Now, 1 week into Donald Trump's 
Presidency, that has all gone out the rightwing window.
  Under Donald Trump, it is the dawn of a golden age for Project 2025, 
and this should infuriate working people from one end of America to the 
other.
  Here is a Bloomberg news headline from yesterday:

       ``Trump's Early Actions Mirror Project 2025 Plan He Once 
     Dismissed.''

  In fact, according to Bloomberg, more than 30 of the 47 initial 
Executive actions announced by the administration come directly--
directly--from Project 2025.
  Let me repeat: More than 30 of the 47 Executive actions announced by 
the administration come directly from Project 2025. Project 2025 is 
officially Donald Trump's policy playbook.
  Less than a week into his term, President Trump has gone after 
Medicare savings for drug costs and the cap on out-of-pocket spending 
for medications.
  Where do you find those ideas? Well, they are right out of the 2025 
playbook.
  President Trump also signed Executive orders that would eliminate 
good-paying jobs in clean energy and opened the floodgates for big oil 
companies. Where do you find that? The Project 2025 playbook.
  And even though President Trump said he wanted to leave reproductive 
care to the States, his actions tell us he was not telling us the 
truth. He pushed policies barring doctors from sharing information with 
patients about healthcare, including abortion, and is pushing anti-
choice beliefs into the doctor-patient relationship here in the United 
States and across the globe.

  So when Donald Trump threatens to roll back cost savings for 
prescription drugs or threatens jobs, he is making life easier for the 
big corporations and more expensive for average people. And where do 
these ideas come from? These and many, many more come from the 900 or 
so pages of Project 2025.
  So no matter how much Donald Trump tries to convince people he had 
nothing to do with Project 2025, the truth has now come out. Project 
2025 is the Trump agenda, and, unfortunately, it seems very likely we 
are going to see more of these awful proposals, in the weeks to come, 
from Project 2025, right into the Trump administration.
