[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 16 (Saturday, January 25, 2025)]
[Senate]
[Page S376]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

  Mr. President, yesterday, President Trump traveled to North Carolina 
and California to tour sites ravaged by both hurricanes and wildfires. 
While speaking to reporters, the President mentioned the role of FEMA, 
saying he plans to issue an Executive order that could possibly 
eliminate FEMA altogether. In his words, ``I think we're going to 
recommend that FEMA go away.''
  Look, if you want to talk about commonsense reforms to disaster 
response, that is one thing. But getting rid of FEMA entirely because 
of the conservative hunger to shrink government at all costs is 
dangerous--very dangerous. That could leave families, business owners, 
and local communities fending for themselves.
  President Trump's proposal to get rid of FEMA has Project 2025 
written all over it. Project 2025 wants to privatize some of FEMA's 
programs, including national flood insurance, that vulnerable 
communities rely on desperately. Project 2025 calls for the shrinking 
of the Federal Government's share of disaster aid and making the States 
and local taxpayers pay a far larger share. That is antithetical to how 
Americans stuck together and looked after each other in times of 
disaster.
  Why do we have a national FEMA? Because Americans pulled together, 
not divided one another. And when an area has trouble, whether it is 
floods in North Carolina or hurricanes in Florida or fires in 
California or the devastating effects of Sandy in New York, the whole 
Nation pulls together and says: We are going to help those devastated 
areas. We are all together in this.
  Now, Donald Trump and his toying with getting rid of FEMA undoes that 
beautiful part of America that said: We all stuck with one another when 
one area had such a disaster that they couldn't deal with it all 
themselves.
  History is clear that, when it comes to disaster response, there are 
some things only the Federal Government is equipped to do, and 
President Trump would be mistaken to ignore that.
  When States get overwhelmed, when their highways are buckling, when 
they don't have trucks and ambulances because of flooding or fires or 
whatever--earthquakes--to get to people in need, FEMA comes right in. 
It has happened in my State. It has happened in your State. It has 
happened in everybody's State.
  Get rid of FEMA because a group of hard-right people want to see that 
the wealthy people in America pay less taxes, ``a la Project 2025''? 
Un-American to me and against the grand tradition that we have had for 
over a century--the tradition of each area of the country helping one 
another.
  Eliminating FEMA without thinking of the consequences will only mean 
more pain and more confusion from communities at their worst times--
times of crisis.
  The President should back away from this threat.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
