Administration of Joseph R. Biden, Jr., 2025

Digest of Other White House Announcements
January 3, 2025

The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this Compilation.

January 1

In the morning, the President was briefed on the vehicular attack on Bourbon Street in New Orleans, LA, that killed and injured dozens of people overnight and continued to receive updates throughout the day. Later, he and Dr. Biden traveled to Hagerstown, MD, arriving in the afternoon.

Also in the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Mayor LaToya Cantrell of New Orleans to offer full Federal support following the vehicular attack overnight. The President was also briefed on the latest developments by senior Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Department of Homeland Security leadership and his homeland security team.

In the afternoon, upon arrival at the Hagerstown Regional Airport, the President and Dr.

Biden traveled to Camp David, MD, where they remained overnight. Later, he was briefed on the fire and explosion near the Trump International Hotel Las Vegas in Las Vegas, NV, and directed his team to offer any Federal assistance needed. He also convened a call with his homeland security team to discuss the latest developments in the investigation into the vehicular attack in New Orleans, including Attorney General Merrick B. Garland, FBI Director Christopher A. Wray and Deputy Director Paul Abbate, Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro N. Mayorkas, National Counterterrorism Center Acting Director Brett M. Holmgren, Deputy Secretary of Defense Kathleen H. Hicks, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Adm. Christopher W. Grady, USN. White House Chief of Staff Jeffrey D. Zients, National Security Adviser Jacob J. Sullivan, and Homeland Security Adviser Elizabeth D. Sherwood-Randall also participated.

During the day, the President was also briefed by Deputy Attorney General Lisa O. Monaco on the attack in New Orleans.

The President declared a major disaster in Oregon and ordered Federal assistance to supplement State, Tribal, and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by wildfires from July 10 through August 23, 2024.

The President declared a major disaster for the Native Village of Kipnuk and ordered Federal aid to supplement Tribal efforts in the areas affected by a severe storm and flooding from August 16 through 18, 2024.

The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal assistance to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding from November 3 through 9, 2024.

January 2

In the morning, the President and Dr. Biden returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the afternoon. Their son Hunter accompanied them.

In the afternoon, in the Situation Room, the President and Vice President Kamala D. Harris met with members of their homeland security team to receive an update on the investigation into the terrorist attack in New Orleans, LA, including Attorney General Merrick B. Garland,

Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro N. Mayorkas, Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Charles Q. "C.Q." Brown, Jr., USAF, Federal Bureau of Investigation Deputy Director Paul Abbate, Director of National Intelligence Avril D. Haines, National Counterterrorism Center Acting Director Brett M. Holmgren, and Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency David S. Cohen. White House Chief of Staff Jeffrey

D. Zients, Counselor to the President Steven J. Ricchetti, National Security Adviser Jacob J. Sullivan, and Homeland Security Adviser Elizabeth D. Sherwood-Randall also attended. During the meeting, law enforcement also provided the President with an update on the truck explosion in Las Vegas.

January 3

In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing.

During the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with the families of the victims of the terrorist attack in New Orleans, LA, on January 1.

The White House announced that the President will present the Medal of Honor to seven

U.S. Army soldiers in a ceremony at the White House on January 3: Pvt. Bruno R. Orig (posthumous), PFC Wataru Nakamura (posthumous), Cpl. Fred B. McGee (posthumous), PFC Charles R. Johnson (posthumous), retired Gen. Richard E. Cavazos (posthumous), Capt. Hugh R. Nelson, Jr. (posthumous), and SP4 Kenneth J. David.

The White House announced that the President and Dr. Biden will travel to New Orleans, LA, on January 6.

The White House announced that the President and Dr. Biden will travel to Los Angeles, CA, on January 6 and Eastern Coachella Valley, CA, on January 7.

The President announced the designation of the following individuals as members of a Presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of John Dramani Mahama as President of Ghana in Accra, Ghana on January 7: Shalanda D. Young (head of delegation); Virginia E. Palmer; Karen R. Bass; and Frances Z. Brown.

January 4

The White House announced further details on the President's presentation of the Presidential Medal of Freedom on January 4.

January 5

In the afternoon, in the Oval Office, following his remarks on signing H.R. 82, the Social Security Fairness Act of 2023, the President visited with participants, posed for photographs, and answered reporters' questions about his planned trip to New Orleans, LA, and immigration policy.

During the day, in the Oval Office, the President participated in an interview with USA Today Washington Bureau Chief Susan Page.

The White House announced further details on the President and Dr. Biden's travel to New Orleans, LA, on January 6.

The White House announced further details on the President and Dr. Biden's travel to Los Angeles, CA, on January6.

The White House announced further details on the President's travel to Eastern Coachella Valley, CA, on January 7.

January 6

In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Later, he welcomed President- elect Edmundo Gonzalez Urrutia of Venezuela to the White House to discuss shared efforts to restore democracy in Venezuela, with President Biden emphasizing that the world was inspired by the millions of Venezuelans who voted for democratic change, and validating President Gonzalez Urrutia's victory in Venezuela's July 28 Presidential election. Both leaders agreed that respecting the will of the people, as expressed through a transparent and accountable electoral process, is essential to the success of democracy and that President Gonzalez Urrutia's victory should be honored through a peaceful return to democratic rule; and condemned President Nicolas Maduro Moros and his representatives' repression of peaceful protesters, democracy activists, and civil society. President Biden indicated his intention to follow the planned January 9 protests in Venezuela closely, emphasized Venezuelans' right to express their political opinions peacefully without fear of reprisal from the military and police, reiterated his support for Venezuela's democratic aspirations, and underscored the U.S. commitment to continue to hold President Maduro and his representatives accountable, including by working closely with democratic allies in the hemisphere and around the world.

Also in the morning, the President and his team monitored the severe winter weather impacting communities across the Central Plains and the Mid-Atlantic, including the National Capital Region, and directed senior White House officials to remain in close contact with State and local counterparts in the affected areas.

In the afternoon, the President and Dr. Biden traveled to Kenner, LA. Upon arrival at Louis Armstrong International Airport, they were greeted on the tarmac by Reps. Cleo Fields and Troy

A. Carter, Sr., and Mayor LaToya Cantrell of New Orleans. Then, they traveled to New Orleans, LA, where, on Bourbon Street, they laid flowers and observed a moment of silence at a shrine for the victims of the January 1 terrorist attack. Then, at the Cathedral-Basilica of Saint Louis King of France, they greeted families, survivors, and local law enforcement impacted by the attack.

In the evening, at the St. Louis Cathedral, the President and Dr. Biden attended a prayer service honoring the victims of the January 1 attack, during which they participated in a candle- lighting ceremony. Later, they traveled to Los Angeles, CA, where, at the Fairmont Century Plaza hotel, they remained overnight.

During the day, in the Oval Office, the President signed H.R. 4984, the D.C. Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium Campus Revitalization Act. He also had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Justin P.J. Trudeau of Canada to express his appreciation for his leadership and partnership with the U.S. during his tenure as Prime Minister.

January 7

In the morning, at the Fairmont Century Plaza hotel, the President had an intelligence briefing.

During the day, at the Fairmont Century Plaza, the President was briefed on the wildfires in the Los Angeles, CA, area and directed his team to remain in contact with State and local officials to offer Federal assistance as needed. Later in the day, he received a telephone briefing from Federal Emergency Management Agency Region 9 Administrator Robert J. Fenton, Jr., regarding the Palisades wildfire in the Los Angeles area and encouraged residents in the affected areas to remain vigilant and heed evacuation and other warnings from local officials. He remained at the Fairmont Century Plaza throughout the day and overnight.

The White House announced that the President's scheduled travel to Thermal, CA, had been canceled due to adverse weather conditions and that his previously scheduled event there would be rescheduled for the following week.

January 8

In the morning, at the Fairmont Century Plaza hotel, the President was briefed by his team on the overnight developments of the Palisades wildfire. Later, he received an intelligence briefing. He also had a telephone conversation with Gov. Gavin C. Newsom of California to receive an update on the wildfires in the Los Angeles area.

Later in the morning, at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, the President and Dr. Biden attended the birth of their great-grandson William Brannon Neal IV to their granddaughter Naomi

K. Biden Neal and her husband Peter Neal. Their son Hunter, daughter-in-law Melissa Cohen Biden, and grandson Beau also attended. Then, they traveled to Santa Monica, CA, where, at Santa Monica Fire Station 5, the President was briefed on the Palisades wildfire by California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CAL FIRE) Deputy Director of Communications Nick Shuler and Southern Region Chief Mike van Loben Sels, Los Angeles Fire Department Chief Kristin M. Crowley, Los Angeles County Fire Department Chief Anthony C. Marrone, and Los Angeles Police Department Chief Jim McDonnell. Gov. Newsom, Sen. Alejandro Padilla, and other State and local officials also attended. Then, the President, Dr. Biden, and their son Hunter, daughter-in-law Melissa, and grandson Beau traveled to Los Angeles, CA, arriving in the afternoon.

In the afternoon, upon arrival at Los Angeles International Airport, the President and Dr.

Biden returned to Washington, DC, arriving in the evening. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Mayor Karen R. Bass of Los Angeles, CA, to discuss the latest updates on the wildfires in the Los Angeles area. Also while en route, he received a telephone briefing from Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Deanne Bennett Criswell and Homeland Security Adviser Elizabeth D. Sherwood-Randall on the full Federal response to the wildfires.

The White House announced the cancelation of the President's scheduled travel to Rome, Italy, from January 9 through 12.

The President declared a major disaster in California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State, Tribal, and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by wildfires and straight-line winds beginning on January 7 and continuing.

January 9

In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing. Also in the morning, he was briefed on the latest impacts of the wildfires in the Los Angeles, CA, area.

Later in the morning, upon arrival at the National Cathedral to attend the state funeral of former President Jimmy Carter, the President, Dr. Biden, and Vice President Kamala D. Harris and her husband Douglas C. Emhoff were greeted by former President William J. Clinton and former First Lady and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton; former President George W. Bush and former First Lady Laura Bush; former President Barack Obama; and President-elect Donald J. Trump and former First Lady Melania Trump. Before taking their seats prior to the start of the service, the President and Dr. Biden greeted members of former President Carter's family.

During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with President Joseph Aoun of Lebanon to congratulate him on his election victory. The leaders agreed on the urgency of fully implementing the cessation of hostilities between Hizballah and Israel announced on November 26, 2024, in order to allow Lebanon and its people to recover and rebuild. The President pledged continued U.S. support for Lebanon's security forces and recovery and reconstruction efforts to ensure its security, sovereignty, and prosperity, and expressed his full confidence in President Aoun's leadership to guide Lebanon through this moment of challenge and opportunity.

Also during the day, the President had separate telephone conversations with Gov. Gavin C. Newsom of California, Sen. Adam B. Schiff, Reps. Bradley J. Sherman and Ted W. Lieu, Mayor Karen R. Bass of Los Angeles, CA, and Los Angeles County Supervisors Hilda L. Solis and Kathryn Barger to discuss the latest updates on the wildfires in the Los Angeles area.

January 10

In the morning, the President had an intelligence briefing.

In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine to discuss U.S. support for Ukraine against Russian aggression, with President Biden updating President Zelenskyy on U.S. efforts to surge support to strengthen Ukraine's position, including the delivery of hundreds of thousands of artillery rounds, thousands of rockets, hundreds of armored vehicles, and other critical capabilities to Ukrainian forces, as well as a newly announced comprehensive sanctions package against the Russian energy sector to build upon the existing U.S. sanctions regime against the Russian economy since 2022. President Zelenskyy expressed his appreciation for this surge in support and briefed President Biden on his strategic planning in the war, and President Biden underscored the importance of continued U.S. support for Ukraine.

During the day, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni of Italy to express thanks for Italy's role as a leader in the Group of Seven (G–7) nations, North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and European Union, and his appreciation for Italy's support for the people of Ukraine and discuss Italy-U.S. relations .

The White House announced that the President will deliver a foreign policy address at the Department of State on the work of his administration to strengthen U.S. foreign policy and lead the world on January 13.

The White House announced that the President will deliver a farewell address to the Nation from the Oval Office on January 15.

The President declared a major disaster for the Native Village of Kwigillingok and ordered Federal aid to supplement Tribal efforts in the areas affected by a severe storm and flooding from August 15 through 18, 2024.

The President declared a major disaster in South Carolina and ordered Federal assistance to supplement State, Tribal, and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by severe storms and flooding from November 6 through 14, 2024.

Names: Abbate, Paul; Aoun, Joseph; Austin, Lloyd J., III; Barger, Kathryn; Bass, Karen R.; Biden Neal, Naomi K.; Biden, Jill T.; Biden, R. Hunter; Brown, Charles Q. "C.Q.," Jr.; Brown, Frances Z.; Bush, George W.; Bush, Laura; Cantrell, LaToya; Carter, Troy A., Sr.; Cavazos, Richard E.; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Clinton, William J.; Cohen Biden, Melissa; Cohen, David S.; Criswell, Deanne Bennett; Crowley, Kristin M.; David, Kenneth J.; Fenton, Robert J., Jr.; Fields, Cleo; Garland, Merrick B.; Gonzalez Urrutia, Edmundo; Grady, William W.; Haines, Avril D.; Harris, Kamala D.; Hicks, Kathleen H.; Holmgren, Brett M.; Johnson, Charles R.; Lieu, Ted W.; Maduro Moros, Nicolas; Mahama, John Dramani; Marrone, Anthony C.; Mayorkas, Alejandro N.; McDonnell, Jim; McGee, Fred B.; Meloni, Giorgia; Monaco, Lisa O.; Nakamura, Wataru; Neal, Peter; Neal, William Brannon, IV; Nelson, Hugh R., Jr.; Newsom, Gavin C.; Obama, Barack; Orig, Bruno R.; Padilla, Alejandro; Page, Susan; Palmer, Virginia E.; Ricchetti, Steven J.; Schiff, Adam B.; Sherman, Bradley J.; Sherwood-Randall, Elizabeth D.; Shuler, Nick; Solis, Hilda L.; Sullivan, Jacob J.; Trudeau, Justin P.J.; Trump, Donald J.; Trump, Melania; van Loben Sels, Mike; Wray, Christopher A.; Young, Shalanda D.; Zelenskyy, Volodymyr; Zients, Jeffrey D.

Subjects: Alaska, disaster assistance for Native Village of Kipnuk; Alaska, disaster assistance for Native Village of Kwigillingok; Attorney General; California, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles; California, disaster assistance; California, Fairmont Century Plaza hotel in Los Angeles; California, Governor; California, President's visit; California, Santa Monica Fire Station 5 in Santa Monica; California, wildfires in Los Angeles area; Canada, Prime Minister; Central Intelligence Agency; Chief of Staff; Counselor to the President; D.C. Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium Campus Revitalization Act; Deputy Attorney General; Deputy Secretary of Defense; Director of National Intelligence; Disaster assistance, California; Disaster assistance, Missouri; Disaster assistance, Native Village of Kipnuk; Disaster assistance, Native Village of Kwigillingok; Disaster assistance, Oregon; Disaster assistance, South Carolina; District of Columbia, National Cathedral; Federal Bureau of Investigation; Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); Ghana, President-elect; Group of Seven (G–7) nations; Homeland Security Adviser; Israel, military operations in Lebanon; Italy, Prime Minister; Italy, relations with U.S.; Joint Chiefs of Staff; Lebanon, Hizballah political-paramilitary organization; Lebanon, Israeli military operations; Lebanon, President; Lebanon, U.S. security assistance; Louisiana, Cathedral- Basilica of Saint Louis King of France in New Orleans; Louisiana, Louis Armstrong International Airport in Kenner; Louisiana, President's visit; Louisiana, vehicular attack in New Orleans; Missouri, disaster assistance; National Counterterrorism Center; National Security Adviser; Natural disasters, Central Plains and Mid-Atlantic, severe winter weather; Nevada, vehicle explosion outside Trump International Hotel Las Vegas in Las Vegas; News media, Presidential interviews; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Oregon, disaster assistance; Secretary of Defense; Secretary of Homeland Security; Social Security Fairness Act of 2023; South Carolina, disaster assistance; U.S. diplomatic efforts, expansion; Ukraine, President; USA Today; Venezuela, President-elect; Venezuela, relations with U.S.; Vice President.