[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 176 (Tuesday, November 15, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Page S6678]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           MIDTERM ELECTIONS

  Mr. SCHUMER. Now, Mr. President, on the midterm elections and MAGA 
Republicanism, over the past week, there has been a lot of discussion 
here in Washington and across the media about how the results of these 
midterms defied history and defied conventional wisdom.
  I remember back in April and May: No way Democrats are going to keep 
the majority. They are going to lose a whole bunch of seats. People are 
asking what happened. Well, I think the answer, however, is rather 
simple. This year, Democrats ran strong candidates. We compiled an 
extremely strong legislative record, which the candidates could run on. 
And Republicans, on the other hand, ran with flawed candidates who 
spent more time talking about MAGA extremism than the things that truly 
mattered to the American people.
  After the failures--Republican failures--in elections in 2018 and 
2020 and now in 2022, I hope the message is sinking in. If Republicans 
continue to embrace MAGA radicalism, they are going to keep losing. So 
for their own sake, but more importantly for the sake of the country, I 
hope that very soon the GOP rejects the MAGA wing and makes a 
commitment to work with Democrats in the next Congress.
  The worst thing Republicans can do right now is to double down on the 
MAGA platform and embrace gridlock. But, sadly, it seems that is the 
path that some on the other side still want to take.
  In fact, Senator Rick Scott of Florida, who notoriously led the 
unsuccessful Republican Senate campaign efforts, recently suggested 
that one of the reasons Republicans lost on election day was because 
they actually worked too much with Democrats to pass bipartisan 
legislation; that they weren't MAGA enough. That defies all logic.
  If Republicans want to follow Rick Scott's lead, make our day. 
Following Senator Scott is like following a blind man right over the 
cliff.
  Remember, it was Senator Scott who released a platform calling for 
tax hikes on working and middle Americans, which our candidates 
reminded people of in the election over and over again. It was Senator 
Scott who threatened to put Medicare and Social Security on the 
chopping block, which, again, was one of the most powerful arguments 
for why Republicans were wrong for the country. And it was Senator 
Scott who embraced Trump and believed that the MAGA wing was the road 
to success; that denying the elections and spreading the Big Lie, 
encouraging the MAGA extreme wing was the right thing to do. The 
American people knew better.
  American voters ran in the opposite direction and voted for 
Democrats, including many Republicans, who said: I may be a Reagan 
Republican, I may be a Bush Republican, but this Republican Party ain't 
one for me.
  After three failed elections--three in a row--it should be obvious 
that embracing MAGA is a total loser for the Republican Party. If 
anyone thinks otherwise, just look at what happened last night in 
purple Arizona. Katie Hobbs, the Democratic nominee for Governor, was 
declared the winner in her race against Kari Lake. Everyone thought 
Kari Lake would win because of her communication skills, but even she 
lost--proof positive that MAGA just doesn't work.
  I earnestly hope that in the next couple of months, Republicans will 
realize it is better for the country--and even better for their party--
to focus instead on working with Democrats over the next 2 years to get 
things done for the American people.
  Now, I know this is not going to happen overnight or in the next week 
or two. Our immediate focus, of course, is the lameduck, where there is 
a lot of work to be done. But when the dust settles come January and 
Republicans have, hopefully, resolved some of their own internal 
fights, we hope that at least some of them will realize that the 
scorched-earth MAGA policy is a failure not only for America but for 
them.
  The usual pundits and skeptics and critics are saying: Oh, this won't 
happen. But look at the major bills we did this summer, five of them 
major bills, bipartisan, and before that, the BIF bill, the Postal 
bill, all done bipartisan--significant legislation. We Democrats are 
going to work hard to replicate that effort.
  Americans are tired of the chaos. They are tired of the MAGA 
insanity. They are tired of the MAGA attack on the very roots of our 
democracy. They want leaders who will take their problems seriously. 
Most Americans know that Donald Trump is out for himself and only 
himself, even if it hurts democracy, even if it hurts the Republican 
Party. Republicans should learn that lesson or risk even more failure 
in the future.

                          ____________________

[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 11 (Tuesday, January 18, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Page S259]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               H.R. 5746

  Mr. ROMNEY. Madam President, I have enjoyed the discussion which has 
been going on with regard to this legislation and have a couple of 
comments. One is, given the interest and the priority of and the 
importance of elections, it would have been helpful, prior to preparing 
this legislation for a vote, if those that were the drafters of this 
legislation actually invited a Republican--any Republican--to sit down 
and perhaps negotiate and see if we could find some common ground.
  But instead, the Democrat leadership dusted off what they had written 
before on an entirely partisan basis and then are shocked--shocked--
that Republicans don't want to support what they drafted.
  Now, I note that political overstatement and hyperbole may be 
relatively common, and they are often excused. But the President and 
some of my Democratic colleagues have ventured deep into hysteria. 
Their cataclysmic predictions for failing to support their entirely 
partisan election reform--worked out entirely by themselves, without 
any input whatsoever from any single person on my side of the aisle--
they are far beyond the pale.
  Now, they are entirely right to call out Donald Trump's Big Lie about 
the last election being stolen. But in the same spirit of honesty, they 
should not engage in a similar lie that Republicans across the country 
are making it much harder for minorities to vote and, thus, that the 
Federal government must urgently displace centuries of constitutional 
practice that give States primary control over elections.
  So dire are the consequences, they claim, that this must be done by 
shredding the rules of our senior legislative body. They point to 
Georgia as evidence of political election villainy. The President went 
there to deliver his crowning argument. But, as has been pointed out by 
many before me, it is easier for minorities--and everybody else for 
that matter--to vote in Georgia than it is in the President's home 
State of Delaware and in Leader Schumer's home State of New York.
  In Georgia there are more days of early voting, and in Georgia there 
is no-excuse absentee voting by mail.
  They do decry Georgia's prohibition of political activists 
approaching voters in line with drinks of water, but the same 
prohibition exists in New York. And why? So that voters don't get 
harassed in line by poll activists.
  Just like Georgia and New York, many States keep poll activists at 
length from voters. My Democrat colleagues conveniently ignore the fact 
that the 1965 Voting Rights Act prohibition of any voting practice or 
procedure that discriminates against minorities is still in effect. 
Even today, the Justice Department is suing two States under that law.
  Protection of minority voting is already required by law. Protection 
of minority voting is a high and essential priority for me and for my 
Senate colleagues on both sides of the aisle.
  To be clear, I want an election system that allows every eligible 
citizen in every State to be able to exercise their right to vote in 
every single election.
  So, putting aside the hysteria, let me explain why I don't support 
the Democrats' bill. First, their bill weakens voter ID. I, along with 
a great majority of voters of all races, favor voter photo ID. Their 
bill makes it easier to cheat by accommodating unmonitored vote 
collection boxes. Their bill opens the gates to a flood of lawsuits 
pre- and post-election, and it weakens the safeguards of voter 
registration.
  There are other things in the Democrats' bill that I don't support. I 
am not in favor of Federal funding for campaigns. I also don't think 
States should be required to allow felons to vote.
  Most fundamentally, I think by reserving election procedures to the 
States, the Founders made it more difficult for a would-be 
authoritarian to change the law for voting in just one place--here in 
Washington--to keep himself in office.
  Let me add that I think the Democrats' bill is insufficiently focused 
on the real threat, and that is the corruption of the counting of the 
ballots, the certification of elections, and the congressional 
provisions for accepting and counting a slate of electors. This is 
where the apparent conspirators were focused in their attempt in the 
last election to subvert democracy and prevent the peaceful transfer of 
power.
  Now, I respect Democrats who disagree with my point of view. I hope 
they will offer me the same respect. People who want voter ID are not 
racists. People who don't want Federal funding of campaigns aren't Bull 
Connor. People who insist that vote drop boxes be monitored aren't 
Jefferson Davis.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from California.

                          ____________________

