[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 151 (Tuesday, September 20, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4831-S4832]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE SENATE THAT VIOLENCE AND THREATS OF 
 VIOLENCE AGAINST THE EMPLOYEES OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
                ARE UNACCEPTABLE AND SHOULD BE CONDEMNED

  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I rise today to condemn the violence and 
threats of violence against the men and women of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation.
  I take these threats seriously. This July 1, I chaired the Judiciary 
Committee hearing on law enforcement officer safety and the threats our 
law enforcement officers are facing. I have repeatedly made clear that 
violence against law enforcement is never--never--acceptable no matter 
what ideology motivates it, but here is the reality.
  In the past month, following the FBI's execution of a search warrant 
at Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort, the FBI has faced a flood of 
threats against its employees and its facilities, and these threats 
have been egged on by the former President and his allies.

[[Page S4832]]

  The men and women of the Federal Bureau of Investigation literally 
put their lives on the line every day to keep all of us safe. They put 
themselves in harm's way to stop armed criminals, drug traffickers, 
terrorist organizations, and others who threaten our communities. They 
serve on the frontlines of the opioid epidemic and investigate and hold 
accountable those who traffic illegal opioids and who illegally 
prescribe pharmaceutical opioids. They investigate crimes against 
children and human trafficking--some of the most heinous crimes 
imaginable. They work day in and day out to combat international and 
domestic terrorism, and they carry out judicially issued search 
warrants every day. That is part of their job and an important role 
that they play in our justice system.
  Unfortunately, ever since the August 8 Mar-a-Lago search, their 
dedication has been repaid with a flood of baseless attacks and violent 
threats. Attacking the FBI for his own political advantage is nothing 
new for the former President, but the attacks haven't stopped with him. 
His allies and followers have spewed anti-FBI vitriol online and across 
the airwaves. In recent weeks, there have been calls from Republican 
Members of Congress to ``destroy'' and ``defund'' the FBI. There have 
been calls from Republican congressional candidates to ``gut'' the FBI 
``like a fish'' and ``shoot FBI, IRS, ATF, and all other feds on 
sight.'' So it is no surprise that such outrageous and irresponsible 
rhetoric coincides with a stunning increase in violent threats against 
the FBI.
  Last month, the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security issued a 
joint intelligence bulletin detailing an increase in violent threats 
and acts of violence against Federal law enforcement officials 
following the August 8 Mar-a-Lago search. These include threats to 
place a ``dirty bomb'' outside of the FBI headquarters and online calls 
for civil war and armed rebellion.
  On August 11, a man wearing body armor--armed with an AR-15 assault 
rifle and a nail gun--attempted to breach the FBI's Cincinnati field 
office. On August 16, another man was indicted for threatening to 
murder everyone at the FBI, from Director Wray to the custodial staff. 
On August 25, a man jumped the fence at FBI's Chicago field office but, 
thankfully, was detained and taken to a local hospital for evaluation 
before he could hurt anyone.
  In response to the joint intelligence bulletin and these incidents, I 
asked the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security to have a private 
briefing with Members of the Senate's Judiciary and Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs Committees last week. That briefing only added 
to my concern.
  I cannot share the specifics from this closed-door briefing, but I 
will say this: It should go without saying that the men and women of 
the FBI risk their lives every day on our behalf, but the increase in 
threats to their personal safety since the August 8 Mar-a-Lago search 
warrant is shocking. Beyond the direct threats and violence, there are 
also rising concerns about the public spread of personal information 
about the FBI's employees and families--a practice known as doxing. I 
fear the situation may get worse.
  Last Thursday, former President Trump kept up his threatening 
rhetoric against these law enforcement officers. He said that if he 
were indicted for his actions, ``I think you'd have problems in this 
country the likes of which, perhaps, we've never seen before. I don't 
think the people of the United States would stand for it.'' That is 
exactly the kind of language President Trump used after he lost the 
2020 election to incite the January 6 attack here at the Capitol.
  As I have said many times, political violence and threats of violence 
in the furtherance of any cause--any cause--is unacceptable. It is time 
for the Senate to stand up and support the men and women of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation who have been threatened and attacked for 
simply doing their jobs and working to protect America. Let's condemn 
these baseless attacks on the men and women of the FBI and the 
despicable political game they represent.
  Mr. President, as if in legislative session, I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate proceed to the consideration of S. Res. 775, submitted 
earlier today.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will report the 
resolution by title.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A resolution (S. Res. 775) expressing the sense of the 
     Senate that violence and threats of violence against the 
     employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation are 
     unacceptable and should be condemned.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
resolution.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and that the 
motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with 
no intervening action or debate.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  The resolution (S. Res. 775) was agreed to.
  The preamble was agreed to.
  (The resolution, with its preamble, is printed in today's Record 
under ``Submitted Resolutions.'')
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this resolution which just passed without 
objection from any Member of the Senate will be a reminder to the men 
and women who serve in law enforcement, particularly in the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, that we stand behind them and that those who 
would exploit political events at the expense of the safety of these 
men and women are beyond the pale of constitutional conduct. We want to 
stand behind those who are standing for us--to protect us and our 
families.
  I thank the Senate for agreeing to this resolution. It is timely; it 
is important; and it is clear.

                          ____________________

