[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 188 (Monday, December 5, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Page S6950]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]



                            President Trump

  Mr. President, finally, Donald Trump cannot seem to go a week without 
doing or saying something disgusting, dishonorable, and, frankly, 
disqualifying for high office.
  Two weeks ago, it was a dinner with a pair of loathsome anti-Semites, 
which to this day, he has not denounced. He says: Well, I didn't know 
that one of these men, Fuentes, was coming. He still hasn't denounced 
him now that he knows he was there.
  On Friday, he took his vile rhetoric to a new and horrible nadir when 
he called for the ``termination'' of the Constitution of the United 
States because he lost the 2022 election.
  Aside from the pettiness and the ego of that, it is as if Donald 
Trump is on a mission to find new ways to sink lower and lower to the 
detriment of America. How can anyone hope to take the Presidential oath 
of office to preserve and protect the Constitution while simultaneously 
calling for the Constitution's termination? It is wholly disqualifying 
on its face.
  And now that Donald Trump is being rightfully criticized for 
attacking the Constitution, his response is to double down and deny he 
ever did so in the first place rather than have the decency to own up 
to it.
  I am glad some Republicans seem increasingly willing to condemn 
Trump's lunacy, but we need more voices filling the silence. We need 
nothing less than an avalanche of condemnation from Republicans; but, 
sadly, all we have gotten so far are just a few flurries here and 
there.
  Republicans need to speak up, because if America doesn't extricate 
itself from Donald Trump and his MAGA ideology, it could undercut our 
American way of life. This isn't a partisan scuffle. When a former 
President calls for the termination of the U.S. Constitution, there can 
be no silence, no equivocation--nothing less than total and fierce 
condemnation.
  So to my Republican colleagues, enough is enough. Reject MAGA, reject 
Trump, condemn these awful attacks on the U.S. Constitution.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Illinois.
