[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 137 (Friday, August 19, 2022)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E861]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





  DENOUNCING POLITICAL PERSECUTION, ESPECIALLY THAT OF DR. SIMONE GOLD

                                 ______
                                 

                           HON. PAUL A. GOSAR

                               of arizona

                    in the house of representatives

                        Friday, August 19, 2022

  Mr. GOSAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to denounce political 
persecution.
  As of Tuesday, August 16, 2022, 860 people have been charged with 
crimes for actions on January 6, 2022. A large percentage of these 
people were peaceful protestors who did not even know they were 
violating the law.
  As long as defendants groveled to the judges by renouncing their 
support of Donald Trump and insisting that he made them do it, they 
received plea deals of little or no jail time. If not, you might find 
yourself in jail for seven years, as happened with Guy Reffit, whose 
son the Department of Justice encouraged to turn against his father. 
Another man, activist Brandon Straka, who did not even enter the 
Capitol on January 6th, was given the choice by the FBI to either admit 
to saying an incendiary remark he in fact did not say, or go to trial.
  Perhaps the person most hated by the Deep State was Dr. Simone Gold. 
Not only did she have a problem with massive electoral fraud, she also 
was a leader in combatting COVID-19 misinformation. That is a bad 
twofer. Anyone who dares to speak out against a dangerous, deadly, and 
useless vaccine or abusive and illegal lockdowns that led to countless 
deaths and immeasurable suffering deserves maximum cancellation.
  A judge sentenced her to prison for two months just for trespassing. 
She remained completely peaceful throughout her brief time in the 
Capitol. And now she fears for her safety and has complained of 
terrible treatment by prison officials, as have so many January 6 
defendants--whose constitutional rights to due process and a speedy 
trial have been shredded and annihilated.
  The left gets on its high horse about human rights abuses by the 
likes of Putin and deservedly so. But what about our own secret police 
and rotten justice system who pick and choose who to prosecute based on 
political beliefs? Hillary, Hunter, Peter Strozk, Lisa Page, Andrew 
McCabe, Black Lives Matter and antifa rioters, and those who destroy 
pregnancy care centers are free to egregiously break the law however 
they please. But innocent people like Michael Flynn, Steve Bannon, 
Roger Stone, Donald Trump, and the majority of January 6 defendants 
must go to jail.
  If all protestors who trespassed in D.C. were thrown in a D.C. gulag 
for six months or several years, that would be one thing. Democrat 
activists have invaded the Senate floor and halted official business. 
No one went to jail. Democrat activists illegally stalked and harassed 
conservative Supreme Court justices, and no one went to jail. Indeed, 
the halls of the Capitol have been subjected to leftist sit-ins, 
demonstrations, and other misbehavior for decades, and no one was 
sentenced to months or years in prison. Further, just recently, members 
of a film crew for the left-wing activist Stephen Colbert were caught 
vandalizing a house office and trespassing. They then lied to Capitol 
Police. All charges were dropped and they spent no time in a D.C. 
gulag. But conservative or Trump-supporting protestors who also 
trespassed on federal property have faced the full force of the law. 
This bifurcated treatment is a sign of corruption.
  Our judicial system is broken. The FBI must be abolished. 
Irresponsible and corrupt DOJ officials must be purged, starting with 
Merrick Garland.
  The United States is in an existential crisis between the forces of 
persecution, thuggery, and violence--administered and enforced by an 
unholy alliance of the long arm of the State and left-wing terrorists--
and everyday Americans who want to live their life, raise a family, and 
worship their God. The only question is who will win. And time is 
running out.

                          ____________________

