[Congressional Record Volume 168, Number 13 (Thursday, January 20, 2022)]
[Senate]
[Pages S357-S358]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             VOTING RIGHTS

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last night was a reminder of a difficult 
but important reality of our great democracy: The march to freedom, 
through thick and thin, is never over--and we have to keep marching.
  While last night's vote was disappointing, it will not deter Senate 
Democrats from continuing our fight against voter suppression, dark 
money, and partisan gerrymandering. Democrats are proud of the fight we 
held last night. The strength, eloquence, enthusiasm, and overwhelming 
participation of my Democratic colleagues during debate was 
exhilarating and shows the passion we feel about this issue.
  Facing an uphill battle from the start, we lost the vote. But to have 
not voted would have been a far greater loss, a loss for our Democratic 
Party, which for generations has stood for voting rights; a loss for 
the civil rights advocates who have sacrificed so much on this issue; 
and a loss for the American people and what this country stands for. On 
an issue this important, not doing everything we could would have been 
unacceptable.
  Now, the bromides of the beltway class hold we should not have held a 
vote on voting rights if the outcome was not certain. They are wrong. 
Imagine telling Dr. King not to march from Selma to Montgomery because 
he could not be sure what obstacles awaited him and his fellow freedom 
fighters. Imagine telling John Lewis he should never have crossed the 
Pettus Bridge because it was unclear what perils awaited him on the 
other side.
  Every Member of this body who has ever invoked these great titans of 
freedom has an obligation--an obligation--to uphold their legacies not 
just with words but with actions. Senators were elected to vote. The 
examples of Dr. King, of John Lewis inspire us, give us strength, and 
show us that sometimes the only right option is to move forward.
  And we need to remember what this is about. With the advent of Donald 
Trump and his many Big Lies, with the January 6 insurrection, with the 
vicious acts of voter suppression throughout the States, and with the 
greedy dark money interests that fuel the Republican Party these days, 
this is a fight for the soul of America--nothing less. So Democrats 
will not shy away from an uphill fight; we will continue to face them.
  And I believe that the lessons of history are clear: When 
Representatives have to take a stand, when they have to show to the 
American people where they are on the issues, the right side of history 
ultimately prevails. We know history is on the side of voting rights, 
and we know that forcing leaders to take stands will ultimately move 
the ball forward.
  Now, finally, I want to thank all my colleagues who came to the floor 
yesterday to speak valiantly in defense of voting rights and for 
working assiduously for months on this vital issue: Senators Klobuchar 
and Merkley, Booker, Schatz, Senator Kaine--you, Mr. President--
Senators King, Tester, Warnock, Ossoff, Durbin, Padilla, Leahy--and so 
many, so many more. Their leadership, their expertise, and their 
dedication to protecting our democracy is inspiring. It gives our 
caucus strength, and it made such a difference. Last night was unusual 
and exhilarating because we fought the good fight.

[[Page S358]]

  As former Majority Leader Alben Barkley of Kentucky said 80 years ago 
this November, facing a filibuster, which successfully blocked anti-
poll tax legislation--the majority leader, Alben Barkley, from 
Kentucky, said:

       I am glad I have made this fight. I have made it in behalf 
     of what I believe to be the broad and true foundations of a 
     true democracy.

  Senate Democrats fighting for voting rights is not over. We will keep 
fighting until voting rights are protected for every single American. 
And one day--hopefully, sooner rather than later--we will succeed.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________

